SIR,I have received your Inquiry in a large volume neatlybound. Though I have not read it in course, yet, upon anapplication to it of the Sortes Virgiliana, scarce a page hasbeen found in which my name is not mentioned, and somepublic sentiment or expression of mine examined. Revived asthese subjects are, in this manner, in the recollection of the public, after an oblivion of so many years, by a gentleman of yourhigh rank, ample fortune, learned education, and powerful connections, I flatter myself it will not be thought improper in meto solicit your attention to a few explanations and justificationsof a book that has been misunderstood, misrepresented, andabused, more than any other, except the Bible, that I have everread.In the first words of the first section, you say, "Mr. Adams'spolitical system deduces government from a natural fate; thepolicy of the United States deduces it from moral liberty."This sentence, I must acknowledge, passes all my understanding. I know not what is meant by fate, nor what distinction there is, or may be made or conceived, between a naturaland artificial, or unnatural fate. Nor do I well know what"moral liberty" signifies. I have tead a great deal about thewords fate and chance; but though I close my eyes to abstractmy meditations, I never could conceive any idea of either.When an action or event happens or occurs without a cause,some say it happens by chance. This is equivalent to sayingthat chance is no cause at all; it is nothing. Fate, too, is nocause, no agent, no power; it has neither understanding, will,affections, liberty, nor choice; it has no existence; it is not cvena figment of imagination; it is a mere invention of a wordwithout a meaning; it is a nonentity; it is nothing. Mr.Adams most certainly never deduced any system from chanceur ſate, natural, artificial, or unnatural.Liberty, according to my metaphysics, is an intellectual quality; an attribute that belongs not to fate nor chance. Neitherpossesses it, neither is capable of it. There is nothing moral orimmoral in the idea of it. The definition of it is a self-determining power in an intellectual agent. It implies thought andchoice and power; it can elect between objects, indifferent inpoint of morality, neither morally good nor morally evil. If thesubstance in which this quality, attribute, adjective, call it whatyou will, exists, bas a moral sense, a conscience, a moral faculty;if it can distinguish between moral good and moral evil, andhas power to choose thhs former and refuse the latter, it can, if itwill, choose the evil and reject the good, as we see in experiencсit very often does."Mr. Adams's system," and "the policy of the United States,"are drawn from the same sources, deduced from the same principles, wrought into the same frame; indeed, they are the same,and ought never to have been divided or separated; much lessset in opposition to each other, as they have been.That we may more clearly see how these hints apply, certaintechnical terms must be defined.1. Despotism. A sovereignty unlimited, that is,-the supremalex, the summa potestatis in one. This has rarely, if ever, existedbut in theory.2. Monarchy. Sovereignty in one, variously limited.3. Aristocracy. Sovereignty in a few.4. Democracy. Sovereignty in the many, that is, in thewhole nation, the whole body, assemblage, congregation, or ifyou are an Episcopalian, you may call it, if you please, church,of the whoie people. This sovereignty must, in all cases, beexerted. or exercised by the whole people assembled together.This form of government has seldom, if ever, existed but in theory; as rarely, at least, as an unlimited despotism in one individual.5. The infinite variety of mixed governments are all so manydifferent combinations, modifications, and intermixtures of thesccond, third, and fourth species or divisions.Now, every one of these sovereigna possesses intellectualliberty to act for the public good or not. Being men, they haveall what Dr. Rush calls a moral faculty; Dr. Hutcheson, a morulsense; and the Bible and the generality of the world, a conscience. They are all, therefore, under moral obligations to doto others as they would have others do to them; to considerthemselves born, authorized, empowered for the good of societyas well as their own good. Despots, monarchs, aristocrats, democrats, holding such high trusts, are under the most solemn andthe most sacred moral obligations, to consider their trusts andtheir power to be instituted for the benefit and happiness oftheir nations, not their nations as servants to them or theirfriends or parties.. In other words, to exert all their intellectualliberty to employ all their faculties, talents, and power for thepublic, general, universal good of their nations, not for their ownseparate good, or the interest of any party.In this point of view, there is no differenec in forms of government. All of them, and all men concerned in them, -all areunder equal moral obligations. The intellectual liberty of aristocracics and democracies can be exerted only by votes, andascertained only by ayes and noes. The sovereign judgmentand will can be determined, known, and declared, only by majorities. This will, this decision, is sometimes determined by asingle vote; often by two or three; very rarely by a large majority; scarcely ever by a unanimous suffrage. And from the impossibility of keeping together at all times the same numberof voters, the majorities are apt to waver from day to day, andswing like a pendulum from side to side.Nevertheless, the minorities have, in all cases, the same intellectual liberty, and are under the same moral obligations as themajorities.In what manner these theoretical, intellectual liberties havebeen exercised, and these moral obligations fulfilled, by despots,monarchs, uristocrats, and democrats, is obvious enough inhistory and in experience. They have all in general conductedthemselves alike.But this investigation is not at present before uиs.38 c2ILIr is unnecessary to discuss the nice distinctions, which followin the first page of your respectable volume, between mind,body, and morals. The essence and substance of mind andbody, of soul and body, of spirit and matter, are wholly withheldas yet from our knowledge; from the penetration of our sharpest faculties; from the keenest of our incision knives, the mostamplifying of our microscopes. With some of the attributes orqualities of each and of both we are well acquainted. We cannot pretend to improve the essence of either, till we know it. Mr.Adams has never thought "of limiting the improvements oramelioration" of the properties or qualities of either. The definition of matter is,a dead, inactive, inert substance. That ofspirit is,-a living, active, substance, sometimes, if not always,intelligent. Morals are no qualities of matter; nor, as far as weknow, of simple spirit or simple intelligence. Morals are attributes of spirits only when those spirits are free as well as intelligent agents, and have consciences or a moral sense, a faculty ofdiscrimination not only between right and wrong, but betweengood and evil, happiness and misery, pleasure and pain. Thisfreedom of choice and action, united with conscience, necessarilyimplies a responsibility to a lawgiver and to a law, and has anecessary relation to right and wrong, to happiness and misery.It is unnecessary for Mr. Adams to allow or disallow the distinctions in this first page to be applicable to his theory. Butif he speaks of natural political systems, he certainly comprehends not only all the intellectual and physical powers and qualities of man, but all, his moral powers and faculties, all hisduties and obligations as a man and a citizen of this world, aswell as of the state in which he lives, and every interest, thing,or concern that belongs to him, from his cradle to his grave.This comprehension of all the perfections and imperfections,all the powers and wants of man, is certainly not for the purposeof "circumscribing the powers of mind." But it is to enlargethem, to give them free scope to run, expand, and be glorified.If you should speak of a natural aystem of geography, wouldyou not comprehend the whole globe, and even its relations tothe sun, moon, and stars? of astronomy, all that the telescopehas discovered? of chemistry or natural history, all that themicroscope has found? of architecture, every thing that canmake a building commodious, useful, elegant, graceful, andornamental?In the second page, Mr. Adams is totally misunderstood ormisrepresented. He has never said, written, or thought, "thatthe human mind is able to circumscribe its own powers." Nor hashe ever asserted or believed that, "man can ascertain his ownmoral capacity." Nor has he ever "deduced any consequencesfrom such postulata, or erected any scheme of government" uponthem or either of them.If mankind have not " agreed upon any form of government,"does it follow that there is no natural form of government? andthat all forms are equally natural? It might as well be contended that all are equal, good, and that the constitution of theOttoman Empire is as natural, as free, and as good, as that of theUnited States. If men have not agreed in any system of architecture, will you infer that there are no natural principles of thatnoble art? If some prefer the Gothic, and others the Grecianmodels, will you say that both are equally natural, convenient,and elegant? If some prefer the Doric, and others the Corinthian pillars, are the five orders equally beautiful? If "humannature has been perpetually escaping from all forms," will it beinferred that all forms are equally natural? equal for the preservation of liberty?There is no necessity of "confronting Mr. Adams's opinion,that aristocracy is natural, and therefore unavoidable, with theother, that it is artificial or factitious, and therefore avoidable,"because the opinions are both true and perfectly consistent witheach other.By natural aristocracy, in general, may be understood thosesuperiorities of influence in society which grow out of the constitution of human nature. By artificial aristocracy, those inequalities of weight and superiorities of influence which are created and established by civil laws. Terms must be definedbefore we can reason. By aristocracy, I understand all thosemen who can command, influence, or procure more than an average of votes; by an aristocrat, every man who can and willinfluence one man to vote besides himself. Few men will denythat there is a natural aristocracy of virtues and talents in everynation and in every party, in every city and village. Incqualities are a part of the natural history of man.ΠΠI believe that none but Helvetius will affirm, that all childrenare born with equal genius.None will pretend, that all are born of dispositions exactlyalike,-of equal weight; equal strength; equal length; equaldelicacy of nerves; equal elasticity of muscles; equal complexions; equal figure, grace, or beauty.I have seen, in the Hospital of Foundlings, the "EnfansTrouvés," at Paris, fifty babes in one room;-all under four daysold; all in cradles alike; all nursed and attended alike; alldressed alike; all equally neat. I went from one end to theother of the whole row, and attentively observed all their countenances. And I never saw a greater variety, or more strikinginequalities, in the streets of Paris or London. Some had everysign of grief, sorrow, and despair; others had joy and gayetyin their faces. Some were sinking in the arms of death; otherslooked as if they might live to fourscore. Some were as uglyand others as beautiful, as children or adults ever are; thesewere stupid; those sensible. These were all born to equal rights,but to very different fortunes; to very different success and influence in life.The world would not contain the books, if one should produceall the examples that reading and experience would furnish.One or two permit me to hint.Will any man say, would Helvetius say, that all men areborn equal in strength? Was Hercules no stronger than hisneighbors? How many nations, for how many ages, have beengoverned by his strength, and by the reputation and renown ofit by his posterity? If you have lately read Hume, Robertsonor the Scottish Chiefs, let me ask you, if Sir William Wallacewas no more than equal in strength to the average of Scotchmen? and whether Wallace could have done what he did without that extraordinary strength?Will Helvetius or Rousseau say that all'men and women areborn equal in beauty? Will any philosopher say, that beautyhas no influence in human society? If he docs, let him readthe histories of Eve, Judith, Helen, the fair Gabrielle, Diana ofPoitiers, Pompadour, Du Barry, Susanna, Abigail, Lady Hamilton, Mrs. Clark, and a million others. Are not despots, monarchs,aristocrats, and dermocrats, equally liable to be seduced by beautyto confer favors and influence suffrages?Socrates calls beauty a short-lived tyranny; Plato, the privilege of nature; Theophrastus, a mute eloquence; Diogenes, tebest letter of recommendation; Carneades, a queen withoutsoldiers; Theocritus, a serpent covered with flowers; Bion, agood that does not belong to the possessor, because it is impossible to give ourselves beauty, or to preserve it. Madame duBarry expressed the philosophy of Carneades in more laconiclanguage, when she said, "La véritable royauté, c'est la beauté,"-the genuine royalty is beauty. And she might have said withequal truth, that it is genuine aristocracy; for it has as muchinfluence in one form of government as in any other; and produces aristocracy in the deepest democracy that ever was knownor imagined, as infallibly as in any other form of government.What shall we say to all these philosophers, male and female?Js not beauty a privilege granted by nature, according to Platoand to truth, often more influential in society, and even uponlaws and government, than stars, garters, crosses, eagles, goldenflceces, or any hereditary titles or other distinctions? The graveelders were not proof against the charms of Susanna. TheGrecian sages wondered not at the Trojan war when they sawHelen. Holofernes's guards, when they saw Judith, said, "onesuch woman let go would deceive the whole earth."Can you believe, Mr. Taylor, that the brother of such a sister,the father of auch a daughier, the husband of such a wife, oreven the gallant of such a mistress, would have but one vote inyour moral republic? Ingenious,-but not historical, philosophical, or polítical,- learned, classical, poetical Barlow! I mournover thy life and thy death. Had truth, instead of popularityand party, been thy object, your pamphlet on privileged orderswould have been a very different thing!That all men are born to equal rights is true. Every beinghas a right to his own, as clear, as moral, as sacred, as any otherbeing has. This is as indubitable as a moral government in theuniverse. But to teach that all men are born with equalpowers and faculties, to equal influence in society, to equal property and advantages through life, is as groas a fraud, as glaringan imposition on the credulity of the people, as'ever was practised by monke, by Druids, by Brahmins, by priests of theimmortal Lama, or by the self-styled philosophers of the Frenchrevolution. For honor's sake, Mr. Taylor, for truth and virtue'ssake, let American philosophers and politicians despise it.Mr. Adams leaves to Homer and Virgil to Tacitus and Quintilian, to Mahomet and Calvin, to Edwards and Priestley, or, ifyou will, to Milton's angels reasoning high in pandemonium,all their acute speculations about fate, destiny, foreknowledgoabsolute, necessity, and predestination. He thinks it problematical, whether there is, or ever will be, more than one Beingcapable of understanding this vast subject. In his principles oflegialation, he has nothing to do with these interminable controversies. He considers men as free, moral, and accountableagents; and he takes men as God bas made them. And willMr. Taylor deny, that God has made some men deaf and someblind, or will he affirn that these will infallibly have as muchinluence in society, and be able to procure as many votes asany who can see and hear?Honor the day,¹ and believe me no enemy.IV.TEAT aristocracies, both ancient and modern, have been"variable and artificial," as well as natural and unchangeable,Mr. Adame knows as well as Mr. Taylor, and has never deniedor doubted. That "they have all proceeded from moral causes,"is not so clear, since many of them appear to proceed from phyeical causes, many from immoral causes, many from pharisaical,jesuitical, and Machiavelian villany; many from eacerdótal anddespotic fraud, and as many as all the rest, from democraticaldupery, credulity, adulation, corruption, adoration, superstition,and enthusiasm. If all these cannot be regulated by politicallaws, and controlled, checked, or balanced by constitutionalenergies, I am willing Mr. Taylor should say of them what19 April. The anniversary of the action at Lexington.Bishop Burnet said of the hierarchy, or the severest things hecan express or imagine.That nature makes king-bees or queen-bees, I have heard andread. But I never read in any philosopher or political writer, as I remember, that nature makes state-kings and lords of state.Though even this, for aught I know, might be sometimes pre.tended. I have read of hereditary rights from Adam to Nonh;and the divine right of nobility derived from the Dukes of Edom;but those divine rights did not make kings, till holy oil waspoured upon their heads from the vial brought down fromheaven in her beak, by the Holy Ghost in the person of a dove.If we consnlt books, Mr. Taylor, we shall find that nonsense,absurdity, and impiety are infinite. Whether "the policy ofthe United States" has been wisdon or folly, is not the question at present. But it is confidently asserted, without fear ofcontradictice, that every page and every line Mr. Adams hasever written, was intended to illustrate, to prove, to exhibit, andto demonstrate its wisdom.The association of "Mr. Adans with Filmer" in the thirdpage, may excite a smile! I give you full credit, Mr. Taylor, forthe wit and shrewdness of this remark. It is droll and goodhumored. But if ever policy was in diametrical opposition toFilmer, it is that of the United States. If ever writings wereopposed to his principles, Mr. Adams's are so opposed. Theyare as much so as those of Sidney or Locke.Mr. Adams thanks Mr. Taylor for proposing in the third pageto analyze and ascertain tho ideas intended to be expreased bythe word"aristocracy." This is one of those words which havebeen abused. It has been employed to signify any thing, everything, and nothing. Mr. Taylor has read Mr. Locke's chapter"on the abuse of words," which, though it contains nothing butwhat daily experience exhibits to all mankind, ought, nevertheless, if he had never written any thing else, to secure him immortal gratitude and renown. Without the learning of Luzac, Vanderkemp, Jefferson, or Parsons, Mr. Adame recollects enough ofGreek, to remember that "aristocracy" originally signified "thegovernment of the best men."But who are to be judges of the best men? Who is to makethe sclection of the best men from the second best? and thethird? and the fourth? and so on ad infinitum ? For good andbad are infinitely divisible, like matter. Ay! there's the rab!Despots, monarchs, aristocrats, and democrats have, in allages hit, at times, upon the best men, in the best sense of theword. But, at other times, and much more frequently, theyhave all chosen the very worst men; the men who have themost devotedly and the most slavishly flattered their vanity,gratified their most extravagant passions, and promoted theirselfish and private views. Without searching volumes, Mr.Taylor, I will tell you in a few words what I mean by an aristocrat, and, consequently, what I mean by aristocracy. By anaristocrat, I mean every man who can command or inffuenceTWO VOTES; ONE BESIDES HIS OWN.Take the first hundred men you meet in the streets of a city,or on a turnpike road in the country, and constitute them ademocratical republic. In my next, yon may have some conjectures of what will appear in your new democracy.V.WHEN your new democratical republic meets, you will findhalf a dozen men of independent fortunes; half a dozen, of moreeloquence; half a dozen, with more learning; half a dozen, witheloquence, learning, and fortune.Let me see. We have now four-and-twenty; to these we mayadd aix more, who will have more art, cunning, and intrigue,than learning, eloquence, or fortune. These will infallibly soonunite with the twenty-four. Thus we make thirty. Theremaining seventy are composed of farmers, shopkeepers, merchants, tradesmen, and laborers. Now, if each of these thirtycan, by any means, infuence one vote besides his own, thewhole thirty can carry sixty votes,-a decided and uncontrolledmajority of the hundred.. These thirty I mean by aristocrats;and they will instantly convert your democracy of ONE HUNDREDinto an aristocracy of THIRTY.Take at random, or select with your utmost prudence, onehundred of your most faithful and capable domestics from yourown numerons plantations, and 'make them a democraticalrepublic. You will immediately perceive the same inequalities,and the same democratical republic, in a very few of the firstsessions, transformed into an eristocratical republic; as completeand perfect an aristocracy as the senate of Rome, and muchmore so. Some will be beloved and followed, others hated andavoided by their fellows.It would be easy to quote Greek and Latin, to produce ahundred authorities to show the original signification of theword aristocracy and its infinite variations and application inthe history of ages. But this would be all waste water. Oncefor all, I give you notice, that whenever I use the word aristocrat, I mean a citizen who can command or govern two votesor more in society, whether by his virtues, his talents, his learning, his loquacity, his taciturnity, his frankness, his reserve, hisface, figure, eloquence, grace, air, attitude, movements, wealth,birth, art, address, intrigue, good fellowship, drunkenness, debauchery, fraud, perjury, violence, treachery, pyrrhonism, deism,or atheism; for by every one of these instruments have votesbeen obtained and will be obtained. You seem to think aristocracy consists altogether in artificial titles, tinsel decorations ofstars, gurters, ribbons, golden eagles and golden flecces, crossesand roses and lilies, exclusive privileges, hereditary descents,established by kings or by positive laws of society. No suchthing! Aristocracy was, from the beginning, now is, and everwill be, worid without end, independent of all these artificialregulations, as really and as efficaciously as with them!Let me say a word more. Your democratical republic pickedin the strcets, and your democratical African republic, or yourdomestic republic, call it which you will, in its first session, willbecome an aristocratical republic. In the second session it willbecome an oligarchical republic; because the seventy-four democrats and the twenty-six aristocrats will, by this time, discoverthat thirteen of the aristocrats can command four votes each;these thirteen will now command the majority, and, consequently, will be sovereign. The thirteen will then be an oligarchy. In the third session, it will be found that among thesethirteen oligarchs there are seven, each of whom can commandeight votes, equal in all to fifty-six, a decided majority. In thefourth session, it will be found that there are among these sevenoligarchs four who can command thirteen votes apiece. Therepublic then becomes an oligarchy, whose sovereignty is in fourindividuals. In the fifth session, it will be discovered that twoVOL, VI. 39of the four can command six-and-twenty votes each. Then twowill have the command of the sovereign oligurchy. In the sixthsession, there will be a sharp contention between the two whichshall have the command of the fifty-two votes. Here will commence the squabble of Danton and Robespierre, of Julius andPompey, of Anthony and Augustus, of the white rose and thered rose, of Jefferson and Adams, of Burr and Jefferson, of Clinton and Madison, or, if you will, of Napoleon and Alexander.This, my dear sir, is the history of mankind, past, present, andto come.VI.IN the third page of your "Inquiry," is an assertion which Mr.Adams has a right to regret, as a gross and egregious misrepresentation. He cannot believe it to have been intentional. Heimputes it to haste; to ardor of temper; to defect of memory;to any thing rather than design. It is'in these words,-"Mr.Adams asserts, that every society naturally produces an orderof men, which it is impossible to confine to an equality ofRIGHTS.'" This pretended quotation, marked as it is by invertedcommas, is totally and absolutely unfounded. No such expression ever fell from his lips; no such language was ever writtenby his pen; no such principle was ever approved or credited byhis understanding, no such sentiment was ever felt withoutabhorrence in his heart. On the contrary, he has through lifeasserted the moral equality of all mankind. His system of govermment, which is the system of Massachusetts, as well as thesystem of the United States, which are the same as much as anoriginal and a copy are the same, was calculated and framed forthe express purpose of securing to all men equal laws and equalrights. Physical inequalities are proclaimed aloud by GodAlmighty through all his works. Mr. Adams must have beendestitute of senses, not to have perceived them in men fromtheir births to their deaths; and, at the same time, not to haveperceived that they were incurable and inevitable, by humanwisdom, goodness, or power. All that men can do, is to modify,organize, and arrange the powers of human society, that is tosay, the physical strength and force of men, in the best mannerto protect, secure, and cherish the moral,which are all the natural rights of mankind.The French are very fond of the phrase "social order." TheEnglish commonly hear it, or read it with a broad grin. I amnot Englishman enough to join in this ridicule. A. "воcialorder" there must be, unless we would return to the forests, andassert individual independence in a more absolute sense thanTartars or Arabs, African negroes, or North American Indians,or Samoyedes, or Hottentots have ever conceived. A beggar said at my father's house, full seventy years ago,"The world is very unequally divided. But I do not wonder atit, nor think much of it. Because I know, that if it were cquallydivided to-day, in one month there would be as great odds asever." The beggar's proverb contained as certain and as important truths as any that was ever uttered by the wise men ofGreece.Will Mr. Taylor profess himself a downright leveller? Willhe vote for a community of property? or an equal division ofproperty? and a community of wives and women? He mustintroduce and establish both, before he can reduce ali men to anequality of influence. It is, indeed, questionable, whether suchlaws would not produce greater inequalitics than ever were seenin the world. These are not new projects, Mr. Taylor. Theyare not original inventions, or discoveries of philosophers of theeighteenth century. They were as familiar to Plato as they wereto Helvetius or Condorcet. If I were a young man, I shouldlike to write a romance, and send a hero upon his travels throughsuch a levelling community of wives and wealth. It would bevery edifying to record his observations on the opinions, principles, customs, institutions, and manners of this democraticalrepublic and such a virtuous and happy age. But a gentlemanwhose mind is so active, studious, and contemplative as Mr.Taylor's, must easily foresee, that some men must take care ofthe property of others, or it must perish with its owners; andthat some men would have as many wives as Solomon, andothers none at all.See, what is no uncommon sight, a family of six sons. Fourof them are prudent, discreet, frugal, and industrious men; theother two arc idle and profligate. The father leaves equal portions of his estate to all the six. How long will it be before thetwo will request the four to purchase their shares? and how longbefore the purchase money will be spent in sports, gambledaway at races, or cards, or dice, or billiards, or dissipated attaverns or worse houses? When the two ere thus reduced tobeggare, will they have as much influence in society as any oneof the four?VI.Suppose another case, which is not without examples,-afamily of six danghters. Four of them are not only beautiful,but serious and discreet women. Two of them are not onlyugly, but ill tempered and immodest. Will either of the twohave an equal chance with any one of the four to attract theattention of a suitor, and obtain a husband of worth, respectability, and consideration in the world?Such, and many other natural and acquired and habitualinequnlities are visible, and palpable, and audible, every day, inevery village, and in every family, in the whole world. Theimagination, therefore, of a government, of a democratical republic, in which every man and every woman shall have an equalweight in society, is a chimera. They have all equal rights; butcannot, and ought not to have equal power.Unhappily, the cases before stated are too.often reversed, andfour or five out of six sons, are unwise, and only one or twopraiseworthy; and four or five ont of six daughters, are meretrifters, and only one or two whose "price is above rubies."And may I not ask, whether there are no instances, in which thewhole of. six sons and danghters are found wantiug; and insteadof maintaining their single vote, and their independence, becomeall dependent on others? Nay, there are examples of wholefamilies wasted and totally lost by vice and folly. Can these,while any.of them existed, have maintained an equality of consideration in. Society, with other families of equal numbers, butof virtuous and considerate characters?Matrimony, then, Mr. Taylor, I have a right to consider asanother source of natural aristocracy.Will you give me leave to ask you, Mr. Taylor, why you employ the phrase, "political power" in this third page, instead ofsovereign power, the summa potestatis, the supreme power, thelegislative power, the power from which there is no appeal, butto Heaven, and the ratio ultima regum et rerum-publicarum ?This language would be understood by readers, by scientificpeople, and by the vulgar. But "political power" is so indefinite, that it belongs to every man who has a vote, and cverywoman who has a charm. What, Mr. Taylor, is the resemblanceof a president or a governor to a monarch? It is the rescmblance of Mount Vernon to the Addes; of the Tiber at Washington to the Ganges or Mississippi. A president has the executive power only, and that under severe restrictions, jealousrestrictions; and us I am too old to court popularity, I will venture to say, in my opinion, very pernicious restrictions; restrictions that will destroy this constitution before its time. A president has no legislative power; a monarch has it all.What resemblance has an American senate to a hereditaryorder? It has a negative upon the laws. In this, it resemblesthe house of lords in England; but in nothing else. It has noresemblance to any hereditary order. It has no resemblanceeven to the hereditary descent of lands, tenements, and hereditaments, There is nothing hereditary in it.And here, Mr. Taylor, permit me to ask you, whether thedescent of lands and goods and chattels does not constitute ahereditary order as decidedly as the descent of stare and garters? I will be still bolder. Has not this law of descents constituted the Honorable Joln Randolph one of a hereditary order,for a time, as clearly us any Montmorenci or Howard, any Juliusany of the Heraclides, or any of the blood of Mahomet, or anyof his connections by marriage?You must allow me twenty years to answer a book that costyou twenty years of meditation to compose.You must allow me also to ask you a question still nearerhome. You had the honor and felicity to marry the only childof my honest and sincere friend, the Honorable John Pern, ofNorth Carolina. From this marriage, you derived, with an amiable consort, a handsome fortune.If you complain that this is personal, I confess it, and intendit should be personal, that it might be more striking to you,and to all others who may ever see or hear of our controversy.In return, I give you full leave to ask me any questions relativeto myself, my ancestors, my posterity, my natural or politicalfriends. I will answer every question you can ask with thesame frankness, candor, and sincerity.39 I will be bolder still, Mr. Taylor. Would Washington haveever been commander of the revolutionary army or presidentof the United States, if he had not married the rich widow ofMr. Custis? Would Jefferson ever have been president of theUnited States if he had not married the daughter of Mr. Wales? I am weary and so are you. Ceremonies avaunt.VII.WHAT shall I say of the "resemblance of our house of representatives to a legislating nation?" It is perhaps a miniaturewhich resembles the original as nuch as a larger picture wouidor could. But, sir, let me say, once for all, that as no picture,great or small, no statue, no bust in brass or marble, gold or sil.ver, ever yet perfectly resembled the original, so no representative government ever perfectly represented or resembled theoriginal nation or people.Is not representation an essential and fundamental departurefrom democracy? Is not every representative government inthe universe an aristocracy? Call it despotism; call it oligarchy; call it aristocracy; call it democracy; call it a mixtureever so complicated; still is it not an aristocracy, in the strictest sense of the word, according to any rationul definition of itthat can be given? that is, a government OF A FEW, who havethe command of two votes, or more than two, over THE MANY,who have only one?Represcntation and democracy are a contradiction in terms.Pursue your principles, then, sir; demolish all aristocratical andrepresentative government; divide our continent from St. Croixto Mississippi, into districts not of geographical miles, yards, orfeet, but of voters of one hundred men in each. I will not stayto make a mathematical calculation; but put a certain for anuncertain number. Suppose the number of free, sovereign, independen't democracies to be eighty thousand. In theseassemblies, all questions of war and peace, commerce, &c. &c.&&c. are to be discussed and decided. And when and how, andwhat would be the national result? I dare not comment upon your book, sir, without quotingyour words. You say, in this third page,-"Upon this threefold resemblancc Mr. Adams has sciżed, tobring the political system of America within the pale of theEnglish system of checks and balances, by following theC ANALYBIS OF ANTIQUITY; and, in obedience to THAT AUTHORITY, bymodifying our temporary, elective, responsible governors, intomonarchs; om senates into aristocratical orders; and our representatives into a nation personally exercising the functions ofgovernment." I fear I shall fatigue you with my observations. But it is ofno great importance, since this correspondence is intended foryour amusement and mine. You are not obliged to read myletters any longer than they amuse you; and I am confidentthat if my letters were plinted, therc would not be found sixpeople in the world who would read them with attention. Wewill then.amuse ourselves a little with a few of my remarks.1. Mr. Adams has seized"1"upon a thrceſold resemblance," to"bring the political system of America within the pale of theEnglish system." Figurative langunge is as dangerous inlegislation and jurisprudence as in mathematics. This wordFALE is a figure, a metaphor, an emblem, a hicroglyphic. Whatis a pale? A slice of wood sunk in the ground at one end, toinclose a plat. Here is another figure. A pale, or "the pale,"is used to express many pales; enough in number and measureto inclose a very spacious plat,-"the English system of checksand balances." Now, sir, have I brought the system of Americawithin the pale of the English system? What, indecd, had Ito do with "the system of America?" America, when mythree volumes were printed, had no system but the old confederation. My volumes had nothing in view but the state governments; and, in strict truth, nothing in view, but the state constitution of Massachusetts,-a child, of which I was, right orwrong, the putative father. How, then, is the system of America brought within the English systern? In the English system, the executive power is universal, unlimited in all afairs,foreign and domestic, and hereditary to all generations. In thesystem of America, the executive power is limited, shackled inmost matters, foreign and domestic, and so far from being hereditary, it is limited to four years. The cèreus, once in its life,blooms at midnight, and for one, two, three, or four hours, glows,with transcendent splendor, then fades and dics.A poet mightbring this flower within THE rALE of tho sun, which shines withequal glory through all ages, seen or unseen by the little animals whose sight is often obscured by clouds, fogs, and vapors,or within the pale of American policy.2. "By FOLLOWING THE ANALYEIS OF ANTIQUITY." What isthis analysis of antiquity? The one, the few, and the many.And why is this called the "analysis of antiquity,"rather thanthe analysis of modernity? Is there a nation, at this hour of thissixteenth day of June, 1814, on this globe, in which this analysisis not as obvious and undeniable as it ever was in any age orany nation of antiquity? Is there a state in this union, is therea district, a parish, a party, a faction, a sedition, a rebellion, inthe world, in which this analysis is not glaring? Should youdetect a conspiracy among your domestics, which I hope youwill, if it should exist, while I devoutly pray it may never exist,you would find this analysis in its perfection. A one, a few, anda many.Why, then, sir, do you throw all the odium of this eternal,unchangeable truth upon poor "antiquity?" An ancient mightsay to a modern, as Nathan said unto David, Thou art the man.3. "And in obedience to that authority!" What authority?"The authority of antiquity!" And why not the authority ofSt. Domingo? of the Spanish colonies in America? of the British colonies in America betore and since the revolution? of theFrench revolution and counter-revolutions, from Maratand Robespierre, nay, from Rochefoncauld, Condorcet, and Turgot, toBonaparte, Talleyrand, and Sieyes, in the last scene of the lastact of the tragedy? And why not the authority of every tribeof Indians in America? every nation or tribe of negroes inAfrica? Why not in every horde of Arabs, Tartars, Hottentots, Icelanders, Samovedes, or Kamtşchatkans? These are allamong my authorities, as well as all antiquity over the wholeglobe, where men havé existed. These authorities are modernenough, and ancient enough, to prove the analysis of the one,the three, and the many, to be universal, and proceeding fromnatural causes. Which of these authorities, sir, will you deny,contradict, or explain away?OBSERVATION fourth. "By modifying our temporary, elective, responsible governors into monarchs." How have I modified our governors into monarchs? My three volumes werewritten in defence of the constitution of Massachusetts, againsta rude and insolent attack of M. Turgot. This constitution,which existed in my handwriting, made the governor ANNUALLYelective, gave him the executive power, shackled with a council,that I now wish was annihilated, and made him as responsibleas any executive power in the United States, or any one of theseparate states is to this day. How then are my annual governors modified into hereditary monarchs? my annual electivegovernors, limited and shackled, even in the exercise of the executive authority, and msponsible for all things, modified intohereditary monarchs, possessed of unlimited legislative and executive power, or even only of unlinited executive power, andresponsible for othing?Observation fifth. Ry modifyirg "our senates into aristocratical orders." What is meant L;"cur senates?" Mybooks had not in contemplation any senate of the UnitedStates; for no such senate existed, or was expected by me.M. Turgot's attack was, in reality, on the senate of Massachusetts. That senate was annually elective; had no executivepower, positive or negative; was merely an independent branchof the legislative power. How, then, did Mr. Adams modify"our senates into aristocratical orders?" What is the meaning,the definition, the analysis of "aristocratical orders?" My anomalistical friend, and friend of mankind, Horne Tooke, has said,"mankind are not sufficiently aware that words without meaning, or of equivccal meaning,. are the everlasting engines offraud and injustice." This wise saying of my learned friend, isno more than every attentive, thinking, and reflecting mind sces,feels, and laments every day. Yet "mankind are not sufficientlyaware." You will charge me here with an aristocratical distinction; with erecting an aristocratical order of thinking men,in contradiction to the democratical order of unthinking men.Well! is there not such a distinction in nature? Are not somechildren thoughtful and others thoughtless from their earliestyears? Among the thoughtful, indeed, there is a distinction.D2Some think for good and others for evil; and this distinction ismanifest through life, and shows itself in all the prosperities andall the adversities of human life. Recollect the history of ourown dear country for the last fifty years, and the principal, prominent characters in our political drama, and then tell mewhether there has not been a very glaring distinction betweenthoughtful and thoughtless characters, both good and evil!Our governors resemble'monarchs in nothing, but in holding,for short periods, the executive power of the laws, under shacklesand trammels, that destroy the efficacy of the constitution.Our senates resemble "aristocratical orders" in nothing, butholding for short periods a negative upon the laws, with theaddition of a participation in the executive power, in someinstances, which mixes the legislative and executive powertogether, in such a manner as to destroy the efficacy of the con- stitution. Our national representatives have no more nor lesspower, that I recollect, than they ought to have.x."WHETHEn the terms 'monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy,'or the one, the few, and the many, are only numerical; or characteristic, like the calyx, petal, and stamina of plants; or complicated, with the idea of a balance; they have: ver yet, singly orcollectively, been used to describe a governrt deduced fromgood moral principles.".Linnwus is upon my shelf, very near ut I will not takehim down to consult him.abr alyx, petal, and stamina,because we are not now upon. jening, agriculture, or, naturalhistory. Politics and legislation are our present subjėcts.:I have no clearidea of your distinction between "numericaland characteristic." You say, if I understand you, that nosimple or mixed or balanced form of government has ever yetsingly or collectively been used to describe a government deduced from good moral principles.What government, then, ever was deduced from good moralprinciples? Certainly none. For simple, or mixed, or complicated with a balance, surely comprehend every species of govèrnment that éver had a being, or that ever will exist. Becauseimagination cannot conceive of any government besides thoseof the one, the few, or the many, or such as are compoundedof them, whether complicated with the idea of a balance or not.The whole is equal to all its parts, and all the parts are equal tothe whole. In a right-angled triangle, the hypothenuse and thetwo legs comprehend the whole diagram.Again, how are the United States distinguished from all othergovernments, or from any other government? What are theGOOD MORAL PRINCIPLES from which the governments of the United States are deduced, which are not common to many othergovernments? In all that great number and variety of constitutions which the last twenty-five years have produced inFrance, in Holland, in Geneva, in Spain, we find the mostexcellent moral principles, precepts, and maxims, and all ofthem complicated with the idea of a balance. We make ourselves popular, Mr. Taylor, by telling our fellow-citizens thatwe have made discoveries, conceived inventions, and madeimprovements. We may boast that we are the chosen people;we may even thank God that we are not like other men; but,after all, it will be but flattery, and the delusion, the sclf-deceitof the Pharisee.Is not the constitution of the United Statcs "complicated withthe idea of a balance?" Is there a constitution upon recordmore complicated with balances than ours? In the first place,eighteen states and some territories are balanced against thenational government, whether judiciously or injudiciously, I willnot presume at present to conjecture. We have seen sоmеeffects of it in some of the middle and some of the southern andwestern states, under the two first administrations; and wenow behold some similar effects of it under the two last. Somegenius more prompt and fertile than mine, may infer from alittle what a great deal means. In the second place, the houseof representatives is balanced against the senate, and the senateagainst the house. In the third place, the executive authorityis, in some degree, balanced against the legislative. In thefourth place, the judiciary power is balanced against the house,the senate, the executive power, and the state governments. Inthe fifth place, the senate is balanced against the president in allappointments to office, and in all treaties. This, in my opinion,is not merely a uscless, but a very pernicious balance. In thesixth place, the people hold in their own hands the balanceagainst their own representatives, by biennial, which I wishhad been annual electións. In the seventh place, the legislatures of the several states are balanced against the senate bysextennial elections. In the eighth place, the electors arebalanced against the people in the choice of the president.And here is a complication and refinement of balances, which,for any thing I recollect, is an invention of our own, and peculiar to us.The state legislatures can direct the choice of electors by thepeople at large, or by the people in what districts they please,or by themselves, without consulting the people at all. However, all this complication of machinery, all these wheels withinwheels, these imperia within imperiis have not been sufficient tosatisfy the people. They have invented a balance to allbalances in their caucuses. We have congressional caucuses,state caucuses, county caucuses, city caucuses, district caucuses,town caucuses, parish cancuses, and Sunday caucuses at churchdoors; and in these aristocratical cancuses elections are decidedDo you not tremble, Mr. Taylor, with fear, that anotherbalance to all these balances, an over balance of all "moralbe liberty," and to every moral principle and feeling, may sooninvented and introduced; I mean the balance of corruption?Corruption! Be not surprised, sir. If the spirit of party is corruption, have we not seen much of it already? If the spirit offaction is corruption, have we seen none of that evil spirit? Ifthe spirit of banking is corruption, as you have uniformly proclaimed it to be, ever since I had the honor of your acquaintance, and as your "Arator" and your "Inquiry" everywhererufficiently demonstrate, have you ever heard or read of anycountry in which this spirit prevailed to a greater degree thanin this? Are you informed of any aristocratical institution bywhich the property of the many is more manifestly sacrificed tothe profit of the few?Are all these impure spirits "deduced from moral liberty," orare any of them reconcilable to moral principle ?In your fourth page, you "are unable to discover in our formof government any resemblance of monarchy, aristocracy, ordemocracy, as defined by ancient writers, and by Mr. Adams himself."As these words are technical terms, whose meaning is as welldefined, both by ancients and moderns, as the words point, line,surface, or solid, in geometry, I shall not turn over volumes toquote authorities in a question of so easy a solution. To avoidmisrepresentation, however, I shall explicitly premise that all intelligence, all power, all force, all authority, originally, inherently,necessarily, inseparably, and inalienably resides in the people.In the language of civilians, the summa potestatis, the supreme, sovereign, absolute, and uncontrollable power, is placed by Godand nature in the people, and they never can divest themselvesof it. All this was truth, before the people themselves, by theirown sagacity, or their moral sentiments, or, if you had rathersay, by their own simplicity, credulity, and imbecility, began todistinguish the one and the few from their own average andlevel. For you may depend upon it, the people themselves, bytheir own observation and experience and feelings, their ownsensations and roficctions, made these distinctions before king.-crafi, priestcraft, or noblecraft had any thing to do with them.An inevitable consequence of this great truth is another,namely, -that all government, except the simplest and mostperfect democracy, is REPRESENTATIVE GOVERNNENT. The simplest despotism, monarchy, or aristocracy, and all the most complicated mixtures of them that ever existed or can be imagined,are mere reprcsentatives of the people, and can exist no longerthan the people will to support them.A bas le tyran, à bas le gouvernement, bon ou mauvais,-good, bad, or indifferent, whenever the people decree and proclaim its downfall, it falls.Is this explicit concession democratical enough? I beg yourpardon. I had forgotten for a moment that you do not allow"democracy to be deduced from moral liberty." Let me varymy question then. Do you admit those two great truths to beconsistent with "moral liberty" and "the constitution of theUnited States?"But to return, and approach the question, if peradventure wecan find it. Scientific definitions are commonly in the abstractmerėly ideal and intellectual and theoretical. For example,"point has no parts;" "a line is longitude without latitude;"-"a superficies is length and breadth without thickness;" yet, inpractice, we can neither see nor feel these points, lines, or surfaces. Thus monarchy is defined to be "a sovereignty in one,"that is to say, all the rights, powers, and authorities of a wholenation, committed in trust to a single man, without limitationor restriction. Aristocracy, the same ample and unlimitedpower, vested in a small number of men. Democracy reservesall these rights, prerogatives, and privileges to the whole nation,and every act of its volition must be determined bya vote.Now it is manifest, that no such simple government as eitherof these, ever existed in any nation; no, nor in any city, town, village, nor scarcely in any private social club. To say, then, that amixed, balanced government can be formed of monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy, in this sense of the words, would be asabsurd, as for a Hindoo to say. that the best government wouldbe that of three omniscient nd almighty Brahmins, mixed orcommixed together and recipre cally balancing each other. Thusfar, for what I know, we may be pretty well agreed. Bui whenyou say, that, "in our form of government," no resemblance canbe discovered of monarchy, aristocracy, or democracy, I begleave to differ from you.The Prince of Orange, William V.,in a conversation with whichhe honored me in 1789, was pleased to say, that "he had readour new constitution," and he added, "Monsieur, vous allez avoirun roi, sous le titre de président," which may be translated, "Sir,you have given yourselves a king, under the title of president."Turgot, Rochefoucauld and Condorcet, Brissot and Robespierre and Mazzei were all offended, that we had given toomuch eclat to our governors and presidents. It is true, and Irejoice in it, that our presidents, limited as they are, have morepower, that is, more executive power, than the stadtholders, thedoges, the podestàs, thc avoyers, or the archons, or the kings ofLacedæmon or of Poland. To be brief, the general sense ofmankind differs from you in opinion, and clearly sees, and fullybelieves, that our president's office has "some resemblance ofmonarchy," and God forbid that it should ever be diminished.All these monarchical powers, however, "are deduced" inyour judgment, "from moral liberty." I agree that they are"deduced" from morality and liberty; but if they had beenmore deliberately considered and better digested, the moralityand liberty would have been better secured, and of longer duration, if the senatorial limitation of them had been omitted.In my next, we will see if we can discover any resemblanceof aristocracy in our form of government.
