DEAR SIR,- I read over, with pleasure, your observations onthe new federal constitution, and am glad to find an opportunityto communicate to you my opinion of some parts of them. Itis by a free and amicable intercourse of sentiments, that thefriends of our country may hope for such a unanimity of opinion and such a concert of exertions, as may sooner or laterproduce the blessings of good government.You say, "it is by some objected that the executive is blendedwith the legislature, and that those powers ought to be entirelydistinct and unconnected. But is not that a gross error in politics? The united wisdom and various interests of a nationshould be combined in framing the laws by which all are to begoverned and protected, though it should not be convenient tohave them executed by the whole legislature. The supremeexecutive in Great Britain is one branch of the legislature, andhas a negative on all the laws; perhaps that is an extreme notto be imitated by a republic; but the negative vested in thepresident by the new constitution on the acts of congress, andthe consequent revision, may be very useful to prevent lawsbeing passed without mature deliberation, and to preserve.sta-bility in the administration of government; and the concurrenceof the senate in the appointment to office will strengthen thehands of the executive, and secure the confidence of the peoplemuch better than a select council, and will be less expensive."Is it, then, "an extreme not to be imitated by a republic," tomake the supreme executive a branch of the legislature, andgive it a negative on all the laws? If you please, we will exаmine this position, and see whether it is well founded. In thefirst place, what is your definition of a republic? Mine is this: A government whose sovereignty is vested in more than one person.Governments are divided into despotisms, monarchies, and republics. A despotism is a government in which the three divisions ofpower, the legislative, executive and judicial, are all vested inone man. A monarchy is a government where the legislativeand executive are vested in one man, but the judicial in othermen. In all governments the sovereignty is vested in that manor body of men who have the legislative power. In despotismsand monarchies, therefore, the legislative authority being in oneman, the sovereignty is in one man. In republics, as the sovereignty, that is, the legislative, is always vested in more thanone, it may be vested in as many more as you please. In theUnited States it might be vested in two persons, or in three millions, or in any other intermediate number; and in every such supposable case the government would be a republic. In conformity to these ideas, republics have been divided into three species,monarchical, aristocratical, and democratical republics. England is a republic, a monarchical republic it is true, but a republic still; because the sovereignty, which is the legislativepower, is vested in more than one man; it is equally divided,indeed, between the one, the few, and the many, or in otherwords, between the natural division of mankind in society,-themonarchical, the aristocratical, and democratical. It is essentialto a monarchical republic, that the supreme executive should be abranch of the legislature, and have a negative on all the laws. I say essential, because if monarchy were not an essential partof the sovereignty, the government would not be a monarchicalrepublic. Your position is therefore clearly and certainly anerror, because the practice of Great Britain in making the supreme executive a branch of the legislature, and giving it anegative on all the laws, must be imitated by every monarchicalrepublic.LETTERS. 429I will pause here, if you please; but if you will give me leave,I will write another letter or two upon this subject. Meantime I am, with unalterable friendship, yours.II.DEAR SIR, - In my letter of yesterday I think it was demonstrated that the English government is a republic, and that the regal negative upon the laws is essential to that republic. Because,without it, that government would not be what it is, a monarchical republic; and, consequently, could not preserve the balanceof power between the executive and legislative powers, nor thatother balance which is in the legislature, -between the one, thefew, and the many; in which two balances the excellence of thatform of government must consist.Let us now inquire, whether the new constitution of theUnited States is or is not a monarchical republic, like that ofGreat Britain. The monarchical and the aristocratical powerin our constitution, it is true, are. not hereditary; but this makesno difference in the nature of the power, in the nature of thebalance, or in the name of the species of government. It wouldmake no difference in the power of a judge or justice, or general or admiral, whether his commission were for life or years.His authority during the time it lasted, would be the samewhether it were for one year or twenty, or for life, or descendiblėto his eldest son. The people, the nation, in whom all powerresides originally, may delegate their power for one year or forten years; for years, or for life; or may delegate it in fee simpleor fee tail, if I may so express myself; or during good behavior,or at will, or till further orders. A nation might unanimously create a dictator or a despot, forone year or more, or for life, or for perpetuity with hereditarydescent. In such a case, the dictator for one year would asreally be a dictator for the time his power lasted, as the otherwould be whose power was perpetual and descendible. A nation in the same manner might create a simple monarchy foryears, life, or perpetuity, and in either case the creature wouldbe equally a simple monarch during the continuance of hispower. So the people of England might create king, lords, andcommons, for a year, or for several years, or for life, and in anyof these cases, their government would be a monarchical republic,or, if you will, a limited monarchy, during its continuance, asmuch as it is now, when the king and nobles are hereditary.They might make their house of commons hereditary too.What the consequence of this would be it is easy to foresee;but it would not in the first moment make any change in thelegal power, nor in the name of the government.Let us now consider what our constitution is, and see whether any other name can with propriety be given it, than thatof a monarchical republic, or if you will, a limited monarchy.The duration of our president is neither perpetual nor for life;it is only for four years; but his power during those four years ismuch greater than that of an avoyer, a consul, a podestà, a doge, a stadtholder; nay, than a king of Poland; nay, than a king ofSparta. I know of no first magistrate in any republican government, excepting England and Neuchatel, who possesses a constitutional dignity, authority, and power comparable to his. Thepower of sending and receiving ambassadors, of raising andcommanding armies and navies, of nominating and appointingand commissioning all officers, of managing the treasures, theinternal and external affairs of the nation; nay, the whole executive power, coextensive with the legislative power, is vestedin him, and he has the right, and his is the duty, to take carethat the laws be faithfully executed. These rights and duties,these prerogatives and dignities, are so transcendent that theymust naturally and necessarily excite in the nation all the jealousy, envy, fears, apprehensions, and opposition, that are so constantly observed in England against the crown.1That these powers are necessary, I readily admit. That thelaws cannot be executed without them; that the lives, liberties,properties and characters of the citizens cannot be secure without their protection, is most clear. But it is equally certain, Ithink, that they ought to have been still greater, or much less.The limitations upon them in the cases of war, treaties, andappointments to office, and especially the limitation on the pre- 1 M. de Tocqueville has taken a similar view of the President's powers"Le président des États-Unis possède des prérogatives presque royales, dont iln'a pas l'occasion de se servir; et les droits dont jusqu'à présent il peut user sont très circonserits; les lois lui permettent d'être fort,les circonstances le maintiennentfoible." De la Démocratie en Amérique, vol. i. chap. 8.LETTERS. 431sident's independence as a branch of the legislative, will be thedestruction of this constitution, and involve us in anarchy, if notamended. I shall pass over all particulars for the present, exceptthe last; because that is now the point in dispute between youand me. Longitude, and the philosopher's stone, have not beensought with more earnestness by philosophers than a guardianof the laws has been studied by legislators from Plato to Montesquieu; but every project has been found to be no better thancommitting the lamb to the custody of the wolf, except that onewhich is called a balance of power. A simple sovereignty inone,a few, or many, has no balance, and therefore no laws. Adivided sovereignty withouta balance, or in other words, wherethe division is unequal, is always at war, and consequently has nolaws. In our constitution the sovereignty,-that is, the legislativepower,-is divided into three branches. The house and senateare equal, but the third branch, though essential, is not equal.The president must pass judgment upon every law; but in somecases his judgment may be overruled. These cases will be suchas attack his constitutional power; it is, therefore,certain he hasnot equal power to defend himself, or the constitution, or thejudicial power, as the senate and house have.Power naturally grows. Why? Because human passionsare insatiable. But that power alone can grow which alreadyis too great; that which is unchecked; that which has no equalpower to control it. The legislative power, in our constitution,is greater than the executive; it will, therefore, encroach, becauseboth aristocratical and democratical passions are insatiable.The legislative power will increase, the executive will diminish.In the legislature, the monarchical power is not equal either tothe aristocratical or democratical; it will, therefore, decrease,while the other will increase. Indeed, I think the aristocraticalpower is greater than either the monarchical or democratical.That will, therefore, swallow up the other two.In my letter of yesterday, I think it was proved, that a republic might make the supreme executive an integral part of thelegislature. In this, it is equally demonstrated, as I think, thatour constitution ought to be amended by a decisive adoption ofthat expedient. If you do not forbid me, I shall write to youagain.İIDEAR SIR,- There is a sense and degree in which the execиtive, in our constitution, is blended with the legislature. Thepresident has the power of suspending a law; of giving the twohouses an opportunity to pause, to think, to collect themselves,to reconsider a rash step of a majority. He has a right to urgeall his reasons against it, by speech or message; which, becoming public, is an appeal to the nation. But the rational objесtion here is, not that the executive is blended with the legislature, but that it is not enough blended; that it is not incorporated with it, and made an essential part of it. If it were anintegral part of it, it might negative a law without much noise,speculation, or confusion among the people. But as it nowstands, I beg you to consider it is almost impossible, that a president should ever have the courage to make use of his partialnegative. What a situation would a president be in to maintain a controversy against a majority of both houses before atribunal of the public? To put a stop to a law that more thanhalf the senate and house, and consequently, we may supposemore than half the nation, have set their hearts upon?1 It is,moreover, possible, that more than two thirds of the nation, thesenate, and house, may, in times of calamity, distress, misfortune, and ill success of the measures of government, from themomentary passion and enthusiasm, demand a law which willwholly subvert the constitution. The constitution of Athenswas overturned in such a manner by Aristides himself. Theconstitution should guard against a possibility of its subversion;but we may take stronger ground, and assert that it is probablesuch cases will happen, and that the constitution will, in fact, besubverted in this way. Nay, I go further, and say, that fromthe constitution of human nature, and the constant course ofhuman affairs, it is certain that our constitution will be subverted, if not amended, and that in a very short time, merelyfor want of a decisive negative in the executive.There is another sense and another degree in which the exе- 1 Thus far, this has not been found so difficult as was here predicted. But itmust be admitted that the occasions in which the negative iv has been exercised,were not of a kind in which the popular passions are greatly excited.LETTERS. 433cutive is blended with the legislature, which is liable to greatand just objection; which excites alarms, jealousies, and apprehensions, in a very great degree. I mean, 1st, the negative ofthe senate upon appointments to office; 2d. the negative of thesenate upon treaties; and 3d. the negative of the two housesupon war. I shall confine myself, at present, to the first. Thenegative of the senate upon appointments is liable to the following objections:-1. It takes away, or, at least, it lessens the responsibility of theexecutive. Our constitution obliges me to say, that it lessensthe responsibility of the president. The blame of an injudicious,weak, or wicked appointment, is shared so much between himand the senate, that his part of it will be too small. Who cancensure him, without censuring the senate, and the legislatureswho appoint them? All their friends will be interested to vindicate the president, in order to screen them from censure.Besides, if an impeachment against an officer is brought beforethem, are they not interested to acquit him, lest some part of theodium of his guilt should fall upon them, who advised to hisappointment?2. It turns the minds and attention of the people to thesenate, a branch of the legislature, in executive matters. Itinterests another branch of the legislature in the managementof the executive. It divides the people between the executiveand the senate; whereas, all the people ought to be united towatch the executive, to oppose its encroachments, and resist itsambition. Senators and representatives, and their constituents,in short, the aristocratical and democratical divisions of societyought to be united on all occasions to oppose the executive orthe monarchical branch, when it attempts to bverleap its limits.But how can this union be effected, when the aristocraticalbranch has pledged its reputation to the executive, by consenting to an appointment?3. It has a natural tendency to excite ambition in the senate.An active, ardent spirit, who is rich and able, and has a greatreputation and influence, will be solicited by candidates for office.Not to introduce the idea of bribery, because, though it certainlywould force itself in, in other countries, and will probably here,when we grow populous and rich, it is not yet to be dreaded, Ihope, ambition must come in already. A senator of great influVOL. VI. 37 B2ence will be naturally ambitious and desirous of increasing hisinfluence. Will he not be under a temptation to use his influence with the president as well as his brother senators, toappoint persons to office in the several states, who will exertthemselves in elections, to get out his enemies or opposers, bothin senate and house of representatives, and-to get in his friends,perhaps his instruments? Suppose a senator to aim at thetreasury office for himself, his brother, father, or son. Supposehim to aim at the president's chair, or vice-president's, at thenext election, or at the office of war, foreign, or domestic affairs.Will he not naturally be tempted to make use of his wholepatronage, his whole influence, in advising to appointments,both with president and senators, to get such persons nominated as will exert themselves in elections of president, vice-president, senators, and house of representatives, to increase his interest and promote his views? In this point of view, I am veryapprehensive that this defect in our constitution will have anunhappy tendency to introduce corruption of the grossest kinds,both of ambition and avarice, into all our elections, and this willbe the worst of poisons to our constitution. It will not onlydestroy the present form of government, but render it almostimpossible to substitute in its place any free government, even abetter limited-monarchy, or any other thana despotism orasimple monarchy.4. To avoid the evil under the last head, it will be in dangerof dividing the continent into two or three nations, a case thatpresents no prospect but of perpetual war.5. This negative on appointments is in danger of involvingthe senate in reproach, censure, obloquy, and suspicion, withoutdoing any good. Will the senate use their negative or not?If not, why should they have it? Many will censure them fornot using it; many will ridicule them, and call them servile, &c.If they do use it, the very first instance of it will expose thesenators to the resentment of not only the disappointed candidate and all his friends, but of the president and all his friends,and these will be most of the officers of government, through thenation.6. We shall very soon have parties formed; a court andcountry party, and these parties will have names given them.One party in the house of representatives will support the presiLETTERS. 435dent and his measures and ministers; the other will opposethem. A similar party will be in the senate; these parties will study with all their arts, perhaps with intrigue, perhaps with corruption, at every election to increase their own friends and diminish their opposers. Suppose such parties formed in thesenate, and then consider what factious divisions we shallhave there upon every nomination.7. The senate have not time. The convention and Indiantreaties.1You are of opinion "that the concurrence of the senate in theappointments to office, will strengthen the hands of the executive, and secure the confidence of the people, much better than a select council, and will be less expensive."But in every one of these ideas, I have the misfortune todiffer from you.It will weaken the hands of the executive, by lessening the obligation, gratitude, and attachment of the candidate to thepresident, by dividing his attachment between the executive andlegislative, which are natural enemies. Officers of government,instead of having a single eye and undivided attachment to theexecutive branch, as they ought to have, consistent with lawand the constitution, will be constantly tempted to be factiouswith their factious patrons in the senate. The president's own officers, in a thousand instances, will oppose his just and constitutional exertions, and screen themselves under the wings oftheir patrons and party in the legislature.2 Nor will it securethe confidence of the people. The people will have more confidence in the executive, in executive matters, than in the senate.The people will be constantly jealous of factious schemes in thesenators to unduly influence the executive, to serve each other'sprivate views. The people will also be jealous that the influence of the senate will be employed to conceal, connive at, anddefend guilt in executive officers, instead of being a guard andwatch upon them, and a terror to them. A council, selected bythe president himself, at his pleasure, from among the senators,representatives, and nation at large, would be purely responsible.In that case, the senate would be a terror to privy counsellors; 1 This seems to be an imperfect sentence. The sense is explained at the close of the letter. 2 A singular prediction of what actually happened, afterwards, to himself.its honor would never be pledged to support any measure orinstrument of the executive beyond justice, law, and the constitution. Nor would a privy council be more expensive. Thewhole senate must now deliberate on every appointment, and ifthey ever find time for it, you will find that a great deal of timewill be required and consumed in this service. Then, the president might have a constant executive council; now, he has none. I said, under the seventh head, that the senate would nothave time. You will find that the whole business of this government will be infinitely delayed by this negative of the senate ontreaties and appointments. Indian treaties and consülar conventions have been already waiting for months, and the senatehave not been able to find a moment of time to attend to them;and this evil must constantly increase. So that the senate mustbe constantly sitting, and must be paid as long as they sit.But I have tired your patience. Is there any truth in thesebroken hints and crude surmises, or not? To me they appearwell founded and very important. I am, with usual affection, yours,JOHN ADAMS.
