WHETHER the Society for the propagation of the Gospel in Foreign parts conform to the deſign of their incorporation, by maintaining epiſcopal churches in the ſettled TownsandVillages of North-America : or whether they have not miſapplied a fund originally limited to the converfion ofHeathens : is a queſtion ſo intereſting to the Miſſionaries andtheir congregations, that the impartial Public will not be unfavourable to an attempt to determine it, oncefor all, by authentic vouchers. Should this ſuppoſed miſapplication evidently appear ; every honeſt Miſſionary must be anxious of the propriety and right application of his ſervices as a minister of the Gospel. But if from the whole hiſtory and proceedings of the Society it ſhall appear, that their direct and immediate object is the propagation of the Gofpel in our Colonies and Plantations: the Society will be vindicated from a popular objection ; and the Miſſionaries will be entitled to that candid opinion and fair ac- ceptance of their labours, which is due to their integrity and diligence. WHATEVER ſhall be advanced in theſe papers is far from the left intention of offence or controversy. The writer fincerely honours Virtue in whomfoever ; and is perfwaded, that GoodMen of all communions cooperate in promoting the end ofChrif- tianity. The propoſed vindication is defigned to convince the Candid. To confute the obftinate, and filence the malicious, is not in the power of Reaſon. Yet to calumniate the living, and infult the dead, whoſe intentions can only be ſcrutinized at the fupreme tribunal, is an outrage that deferves the public deteſtation : and, in a late inſtance, 1 etfi etfi nullum memorabile nomen- -nec habet victoria laudem : Extinxiſſe nefas tamen, et ſumpſiſſe merentis Laudabor pœnas-- ALL theproceedings and the whole hiſtory of the Society invariably repreſent it, as firſt intended to benefit the English fub- jects ; and then, as an opening ſhould be made, the Africans and Indians. : THE CHARTER, granted by King WILLIAM III. in MDCCI . thus expreſſes the deſign of their incorporation. ' Whereas, in 6 many of the Engliſh plantations, colonies, ' and factories beyond the ſeas, the proviſion ' for Miniſters is very mean ; and many ' others of the ſaid Colonies are wholly deſti- ' tute and unprovided ofa maintenance for ' Miniſters and the public worſhip ofGOD : ' and, for lack of ſupport and maintenance forlearnedandorthodoxminiſters, toinſtruct our loving SUBJECTS in the principles of true Religion, many ofour faid ſubjects do 'want the adminiſtration of God's word and facraments : We think it our duty to promote the glory ofGod, by the Inſtruc-- 'tion ' tion of our People in theChriſtianReligion : ' and that it will be highly conducive for 'accomplishing thoſe ends, that a ſufficient ' maintenance be provided for an orthodox ' clergy TO LIVE AMONGST THEM : and 'that fuch other proviſion be made as may 'be neceſſary for the propagation of the 'Goſpel in thoſe parts.---We have, for the 'confiderations AFORESAID, and for the better and more orderly carrying on the ' ſaid charitable purpoſes, conſtituted and 'appointed a Society----the major part of ' whoſe members preſent at certain meetings, 6 may confult, determine, and make ANY 6 CONSTITUTIONS, LAWS, AND STA6 TUTES WHATSOEVER, which to them ' ſhall feem reasonable, profitableor requiſite, ' for the good estate, rule, order, and govern- ' ment of the ſaid corporation, and the more effectual promoting their charitable deſign. ' : FROM theſe paragraphs we maydeducethe following certain conclufions. 1. That the primary intention ofthisSocietywas, tomaintain apublicReligion intheEnglish Colonies, amongthe natural ſubjects ofGreat-Britain ; and to provide a maintenance for an orthodox clergy ; clergy; which (as the charter was obtained by the members of the church of England) muſt, in all reasonable conſtruction, mean a clergy of their own church. The reaſon of the ſupport of thatclergy, is for the inftruction of our ownpeople in the Chriſtian Religion, and that they may live amongst them as their ſettled and reſident Miniſters. This is the primary and main intention of incorpo- rating that Society: viz. the maintaining Epifcopal Miniſters in the Colonies, for the fupport of public worſhip among the English ſubjects in our own Provinces, in the moſt populous and fettled parts of the continent, where they may be most useful. : 2. THEIRSecondary deſign is expreſſed in very large and indefinite terms : ' that ſuch other provifion may be made, as may be neceffary for the propagation of theGospel in thoſe parts :' that is, in anyofthe Engliſh colonies or plantations, with no particular restriction to the Indians of this continent, who are not once' mentioned in the whole charter: which only implies,that theSociety ſhould difcretionally improve all favourable opportunities ofdiſſeminating the Gospel among fuch Heathens as could be induced to ৯ B 2 receive receive it. Thus farit appears, that thefirst * and principal end of this corporation is, ' not to plant Chriftianity among Heathens, ' but to reſtore or preferve it among Chrif- ' tians: and that the convertingHeathens is a 'Secondary incidental point. For as our ' colonies are ſettled in heathen countries ; ' it is not unlikely, that if we can preſerve ' Religion among our own people, many of ' the Heathens will be the better for it.' * 3. IT is obfervable, that a large difcretio- narypower is left to the Society, to regulate their inſtitution, and even occafionally to make alterations in it, in ſuch a manner as to render it moſt beneficial to Religion, whether in our colonies, or among the border- ing nations. For this purpoſe, they and their ſucceſſors for ever are impowered to make any laws or conſtitutions that ſhall ſeem reasonable, profitable or requifite for the good estate and government of the Society, and the effectual promoting its cha- ritable deſign. Thus, with an evidence be- yond exception, it appears that their conduct, in placing Churches among us, is în all re- ſpects conformable to their inſtitution ; and to any one who cries out on imaginary abuſes * Dr. STEBBING's Serm, 1742. p. 18. abufes or miſapplications, the Society may reply, like the wife and good houſholder whoſe Stewards, they are, ' Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? is thine eye evil, because Iamgood?\" Afew reflections will ſhewthe use ofthis appeal to the firſt conſtitution ofthe Society. In the firſt place, itarguesgreatignorance, or ſomething worſe, to miſrepreſent them as deſerting their planand inſtitution, byſettling Epifcopal Churches in the Engliſh governments. By maintaining ſuch Churches and their reſident Miniſters in the very heart and boſom of our Colonies, in the moſt ſettled Provinces and moſt populous Towns; they keep to the primary and main intention of their Royal Founder; a Prince whoſe name is equally dear to Proteſtants ofall communions. The mistakes on this matter, in this country and province, whether wilful or ignorant, have ariſen from a partial and imperfect idea of the object of the Society. The objection repreſents their Secondary and incidentaldeſign as theirfole buſineſs ; whereas, intruth, the Indian converfions are onlyfubordinate to their principal moſt excellent and comprehenfive object, that ofgiving all the British 1 Britiſh ſubjects on this vast continent the means of public Religion. If it be ſaid, they have the means ofReligion already, in other Proteſtant communions, this is notuniverſally true: or wherever it happily is true ; this brings us back to the claim of Liberty of Conſcience. The means ofpublic Religion are NO MEANS to him whoſe Conſcience cannot uſe, or does not approve, them: no more than Popery or Mahomitaniſm afford the means of Religion to a good Proteftant, who happens to reſide in Popiſh or Mahometan countries. THE miſtakes on this ſubject have been made to appear very plauſible, by citations from the Sermons ofthe Society, expreſſing the moſt tender ſolicitude for the heathen nations, and projecting the means and methods ofconverting them. This noble topic, ofthe extenfion and univerſality of Religion , has been managed by the preachers of the Society with great accuracy and erudition : and a theme ſo intereſting and magnificent, could not but engage their frequent regard. But it is never ſo managed, as to exclude or undervalue their primary and onlypracticable object ofeſtabliſhingChurches inthe Engliſh Provinces. Even while they moſt earnestly recommend ال recommend all endeavours for the effettual converfion of the bordering ſavages ; they never loſe ſight of their principal aim, of ' remedying in the firſt place the ill ſtate of ' Religion in our colonies themſelves: and 'this with good reaſon, not only becauſe ■ ' moſt of the people here are of British ex- ' traction ; and all of them their Fellow- ' ſubjects ; but without this care, the conver- fion of the neighbouring ſavages can hardly 1 ۱ ' be effected. ' * BUT although the Indian converſions are undertaken by our Society incidentally, and as it were ex abundanti : yet they have omitted no opportunity of promoting this pious work; as far as they have found it practicable. In the very infancy of their incorporation, an attempt was made to plant Chriſtianity among the Mohocks. The narrative of their miſſion to the Iroquois is extremely curious and useful: but too long to be tranſcribed. The ill fucceſs of a deſign ſo well concerted, and encouraged by the piety of Q. ANNE, prove to a demonſtration the impoſſibility ofmaking anyfixed impreſſions *Bp. of St. David's Serm. 1759. P. 4. 17. † See Dr. HUMPHREY'S hilt, ofthe Soc. ch. xi. } 1 impreſſions ofReligion onthe minds oftheſe military ſavages. Yet their unwearied zeal in this attempt was not checked by the difappointment. They continued this miſſion, after ſome interruptions ; and the care ofthe Mohocks was committed to a gentleman † particularly and eminently qualified for this difficult work. It appears from the abſtracts ofthe Society's proceedings, that ' in 1742 there was a regular ſober congregation of ' Five hundred Chriſtian Indians, and a daily ' increaſe of virtue and good manners among ' them. This,' ſaysDr. STEBBING * ' is a ، thing by no means to be deſpiſed: and how ' know we but theſe ſmall beginnings may ' be the foundation ofſome great work, tobe ' accompliſhed inGod'sdue ſeaſon.' Similar accounts are continued for fome years after. But notwithstanding this promiſing appear- ance, from the latest authorities, that have come to our hands, we find this Miſſion either much dwindled, or greatly interrupted, ' the † Mohock's River having been in 1758 ' a ſcene of all the horrors of war.' THAT † Dr. HENRY BARCLAY, now the worthy rector of Trinity-Church, in New-York. * See his Sermon, p. 20. andAbſtract, 1742, p. 48. ‡ Abſtract for 1759, p. 61. 62. e e + S S 1 f THAT the ſtateofReligionamongourſelves. is now fo much ſuperior to what it was, when the Miſſions were firſt appointed, is, under God, ſo greatly the work of the Society, that to give this Reaſon for withdrawing their protection from our Churches is to make the ſucceſs and benefit of their deſign, an argument against it. EVERY one, who knows the history of this Country mufſt acknowledge, that in many reſpects the Religious State ofit is manifeſtly improved: notwithstanding the immoralities and defects which we lament, and wish to reform in the preſent mannersand principles. Religion no longer wears among us that favage and gloomy appearance, with which Superftition had terribly arrayed her : its ſpeculative doctrines are freed from thoſe ſenſeleſs horrors with which Fanaticism had perverted them : Hypocrify has worn off, in proportion as men have feen the beauty of Holiness : and above all that exterminating monſter Perfecution, is itſelf exterminated both from the temper and practice of the age. Much indeed remains to be done in Manners and Piety : and to this good work the united efforts of all Parties, are no more than fufficient. The SocietyandtheChurch C of ofEngland it is hoped have not, andwill not, be wanting in their moſt ſtrenuous Endeavours to promote practical Religion. This is and ever hath been their Object ; and folely in the view offuccessfully pursuing it, have they fo liberally and extenſively ſupported a public Religion in our Colonies. And it is reaſonably hoped, that the candid and impar- tial will not impeach their Conduct, for what is moſt laudable both in its intention and effects . But to take leave ofthis popular objec- tion, with fo full a confutation, that it willbe diſingenuous ever to advance it again : the writer confidently reſts his proof on the unexceptionable teftimony of two moſt can- did and truly chriſtian Prelates, who had both of them the beſt opportunities of being well informed, and were incapable either of miſtake or miſrepreſentation in a matter fo thoroughly known to them. THE firſt is that amiable Lover ofMankind, Biſhop BERKLEY, whoſe life, ſtudies, and great abilities were employed in im- proving the manners and profperity ofhis Fellow-creatures. In his moſt inſtructive Sermon before the Society, 1731, the Biſhop ſpeaks ſpeaks ofAmerica, as their peculiar Province ; and mentions himself as ' one who had refided a confiderable time in one of our Colonies, in this very view of informing himself of the ſtate and progreſs ofReligion.' • In order to propagate the Goſpel abroad, it ' is neceſſary we do it at home: the influence ' whereof would foon reach our foreign ' plantations, and extend throughout their borders. It should feem, that the likelieſt 6 ſtep towardsconverting theHeathen would ' be to begin with the Engliſh. The Miſſio ' naries do good ſervice in bringing them to a ' ſerious ſenſe ofReligion ; which it is hoped ' will in time extend to others.' p. 21, &c. THIS teſtimony is ſtill more expressly ſupported by that of the excellent Prelate, who now ſo worthily preſides over the Church of England and the Society itſelf. In his Sermon 1741. he thus fully obviates all thoſe objections, which even his great authority and invincible reaſons have not been able tofilence. ' To carry on the great work of directing ' mankind to preſent and future happineſs, ' is the end of this Society: incorporated, FIRST for the support of Chriftianity in C2 ' our ' our colonies and factories abroad ; THEN, ' for the propagation of it among the Hea- ' thens ; buttaking its name from the remoter 'and more extenſive part of the deſign. Every poffible reaſon required our prede- ' ceſſors to begin with inſpecting the ſtate of ' the Engliſh plantations in America. The * Society therefore firſt ſent over Miſſionaries ' to perform the offices of Religion amongſt ' them. The next object of their concern ' were the poor Negroes. There ſtill remains ' another branch of the Society's care, the Indians bordering on our fettlements. But after all precautions, it cannot be an eaſy ' work, to convert nations whoſe manners 6 are ſo uncultivated, whoſe languages are fo ' different, ſo hard to learn, and ſo little a- 'dapted to the doctrines of Religion ; and who ſeldom continue long enough in the 'ſame place, to let any good impreffions fix ' into habits. * A * It will be worth the Reader's while, to confult Dr. HUMPHREYS's account of the miſſion to the Iroquois, Hift. ofthe Soc. ch. xi. When the Goſpel is introduced amongBarbarians, by the power ofMiracles ; it has a great influence in civilizing them : And actually had that effect ; as we learn from many inſtances inEccle- ſiaſtical history. Seethe fine reflections ofEUSEBIUS on that fubject ; præp. Evang. l. i. c. 4. but Religion in theordinarymethodofteaching,preſuppoſes a capacity andwillingness to receive and retain its impreffions, and to folemnize its Rites and Worship, which are incompatible with barbarous manners. 6 ' Acommon benefit ofpropagating Chrif- ' tianity in our Colonies, is that thus we ſhall ' hinder corruptions of Chriſtianity frompre- ' vailing there. Manypernicious errors took ' early root in theſe provinces: ſome,diſſolv- ' ing the obligation of moral duties : ſome, ' destroying the inward peace ofpious and 'good perfons, by making life gloomy and ' uncomfortable : ſome, leading men to ' aſcribe every folly or wickedneſs, that pof- ' ſeſſes the fancy, to divine inſpiration . † ' Hence, the importance of ſupporting In- ' ſtructors in true Religion, were it only fora ſtanding guard against the inconveniences 6 : ' offalfe Religion. p. 19. 21 . ' AN objection to the conduct of the So- ' ciety, is that they have fent Mifflionaries to ' ſome places, in which there were already • Chriſtian aſſemblies eſtabliſhed and ſupport- ' ed. But in the left exceptionable of theſe ' Affemblies, there are ſeveral things, which ' the confciences of many ( we apprehend, ' with great reaſon) cannot acquiefce in ; who were not therefore to be left deſtitute of ' public worſhip ; eſpecially as our Charter ' was granted in expreſs terms, for the maintenance ofan orthodox clergy in those parts. P. 34- † See Dr. HUMPHREYS's hift.ch. ii. ' p. 34. We have obtruded the ſervice ofthe ' Church of England no where: we have fet- ' tled no Clergyman any where, without the inhabitants requeſting it and contributing to ' it; we have ſent noſucceſſor, upon a vacan- ' cy, without their renewing that request. But if the provifion, which we have made for the people of our communion, hath ' proved inſtrumental at the ſame time to bring others over to it : we hope there is very far from being any harm done. In- ' deed, unity of profeſſion amongſt ourſelves, effected by methods of Peace and Charity, ' will greatly recommend ourReligion to the ' infidels ; who elſe may be tempted to con- ' tinue as they are, for want of knowing with ' whom to join. There canbe no teaching ' at all, but in ſome particular form. We think our own the beſt.* Everybody ' thinks it far from the worst. At leſt, our ' converts will have the Bible put into their hands, to judge for themſelves.' p. 35. ، THE Reader will not only pardon but thank me for this long extract, the reaſoning ofwhich isſo cloſe, yet ſo candid, that it must convince * It is a good preſumptionthat the Church ofEngland is a reasonable Chriſtian Communion, and free from all extremes f コ convince every ingenuous perſon, and ſuper- ſedes whatever might be added on this ■ ſubject. The writer would only ſuggeſt a ſhort apology for his undertaking to vindicate a Society, which is above cenfure, as it is incapable of wrong motives in the application ■ of its liberality. This buſineſs, in truth, was forced upon him, by the frequent re- curring of this topic, both inprint and con- verfation, and by the honour done him of ſharing in the inſult offered to the late Dr. MILLER of Braintree. He promifes, in amends, to employ his ſtudies, for the future, to better purpoſes: and, in conclufion, adds his private opinion; that this truly Chriftian Society, the honour of our age and nation, cannot better apply their munificence, than in providing, throughout our Colonies, for the decent celebration ofpublic Religion. A Proteftant Country, in ſuch aClimate as ours, cannot well be overſtocked with Churches, and reſident Miniſters. The different perfuafions extremes in its conſtitution ; that all the various Religious perfuafions, at home and abroad, concur in holding it next in eſteem to their own. Confidering the force ofprejudice, what in every one's judgment holds theSecond place, maybe ſuppoſed to deſerve the Firſt. For this obſervation, as far as I can recollect, I am indebted to a Fine writer, Dr. JOHN BROWN, au- thor ofthe excellent Eſſays on the characteristics, of an Estimate of the manners, &c. and offome elegant and claſſical Poems. fuafions need not interfere with each others : they may even act in concert, as to the main end inview, that ofpromotingthe Chriſtian Faith and Virtue. Andhow_rapturous is the proſpect to the true Patriot, who unites his views ofPolicy with thoſe of Religion ; to behold this extenſive country, juſt won to theBritiſh empire, graduallyacceding, among its numerous inhabitants, to the empire of JESUS CHRIST, and of conſequence, flouriſhing in Arts, in Science, and in Liberty both civil and religious !
