Permit one of yourselves to put you in mind of certain libertiesand privileges secured to you by the constitution of this commonwealth, and to beg your serious attention to his uninterested opinionupon the plan of federal government submitted to your consideration,before you surrender these great and valuable privileges up forever.Your present frame of government secures to you a right to hold yourselves, houses, papers and possessions free from search and seizure,and therefore warrants granted without oaths or affirmations firstmade, affording sufficient foundations for them, whereby any officeror messenger may be commanded or required to search your housesor seize your persons or property not particularly described in suchwarrant, shall not be granted. Your constitution further provides "thatin controversies respecting property, and in suits between man andman, the parties have a right to trial by jury, which ought to be heldsacred." It also provides and declares, "that the people have a rightofFREEDOM OF SPEECH, and of WRITING and PUBLISHING their sentiments,therefore THE FREEDOM OF THE PRESS OUGHT NOT TO BE RESTRAINED." Theconstitution of Pennsylvania is yet in existence, as yet you have theright to freedom of speech, and of publishing your sentiments. Howlong those rights will appertain to you, you yourselves are calledupon to say; whether your houses shall continue to be your castles,whether your papers, your persons and your property, are to be heldsacred and free from general warrants, you are now to determine.Whether the trial by jury is to continue as your birth-right, the freemen of Pennsylvania, nay, of all America, are now called upon todeclare.Without presuming upon my own judgment, I cannot think it anunwarrantable presumption to offer my private opinion, and call uponothers for theirs; and if I use my pen with the boldness of a freeman,itis because I know that the liberty of the press yet remains unviolatedandjuries yet are judges.The late Convention have submitted to your consideration a planof a new federal government. The subject is highly interesting toyour future welfare. Whether it be calculated to promote the greatends of civil society, viz., the happiness and prosperity of the community, it behoves you well to consider, uninfluenced by the authority of names. Instead of that frenzy of enthusiasm, that has actuatedthe citizens of Philadelphia, in their approbation of the proposed plan,before it was possible that it could be the result of a rational investigation into its principles, it ought to be dispassionately and deliberately examined on its own intrinsic merit, the only criterion of yourpatronage. If ever free and unbiased discussion was proper or necessary, it is on such an occasion. All the blessings of liberty and thedearest privileges of freemen are now at stake and dependent on yourpresent conduct. Those who are competent to the task of developingthe principles of government, ought to be encouraged to come forward, and thereby the better enable the people to make a proper judgment; for the science of government is so abstruse, that few are ableto judge for themselves. Without such assistance the people are tooapt to yield an implicit assent to the opinions of those characters whoseabilities are held in the highest esteem, and to those in whose integrity and patriotism they can confide; not considering that the love ofdomination is generally in proportion to talents, abilities and superior requirements, and that the men of the greatest purity of intentionmay be made instruments of despotism in the hands of the artful anddesigning. If it were not for the stability and attachment which timeand habit gives to forms of government, it would be in the power ofthe enlightened and aspiring few, if they should combine, at any timeto destroy the best establishments, and even make the people the instruments of their own subjugation.The late revolution having effaced in a great measure all formerhabits, and the present institutions are so recent, that there exists notthat great reluctance to innovation, so remarkable in old communities, and which accords with reason, for the most comprehensive mindcannot foresee the full operation of material changes on civil polity;it is the genius of the common law to resist innovation.The wealthy and ambitious, who in every community think theyhave a right to lord it over their fellow creatures, have availed themselves very successfully of this favorable disposition; for the peoplethus unsettled in their sentiments, have been prepared to accede.toany extreme of government. All the distresses and difficulties theyexperience, proceeding from various causes, have been ascribed tothe impotency of the present confederation, and thence they havebeen led to expect full relief from the adoption of the proposed system of government; and in the other event, immediately ruin andannihilation as a nation. These characters flatter themselves that theyhave lulled all distrust and jealousy of their new plan, by gaining theconcurrence of the two men in whom America has the highest confidence, and now triumphantly exult in the completion of their longmediated schemes of power and aggrandizement.2 I would be veryfar from insinuating that the two illustrious personages alluded to,have not the welfare of their country at heart; but that the unsuspecting goodness and zeal of the one has been imposed on, in a subject ofwhich he must be necessarily inexperienced, from his other arduousengagements; and that the weakness and indecision attendant on oldage, has been practiced on in the other.I am fearful that the principles of government inculcated in Mr.Adams' treatise, and enforced in the numerous essays and paragraphsin the newspapers, have misled some well designing members of thelate Convention. But it will appear in the sequel, that the construction of the proposed plan of government is infinitely more extravagant.I have been anxiously expecting that some enlightened patriotwould, ere this, have taken up the pen to expose the futility, and counteract the baneful tendency of such principles. Mr. Adams' sine quanon of a good government is three balancing powers; whose repelling qualities are to produce an equilibrium of interests, and therebypromote the happiness of the whole community. He asserts that theadministrators of every government, will ever be actuated by viewsof private interest and ambition, to the prejudice of the public good;that therefore the only effectual method to secure the rights of thepeople and promote their welfare, is to create an opposition of interests between the members of two distinct bodies, in the exercise ofthe powers of government, and balanced by those of a third. Thishypothesis supposes human wisdom competent to the task of instituting three co-equal orders in government, and a correspondingweight in the community to enable them respectively to exercise theirseveral parts, and whose views and interests should be so distinct asto prevent a coalition of any two of them for the destruction of thethird.3 Mr. Adams, although he has traced the constitution of everyform of government that ever existed, as far as history affords materials, has not been able to adduce a single instance of such a government; he indeed says that the British constitution is such in theory,but this is rather a confirmation that his principles are chimerical andnot to be reduced to practice. If such an organization of power werepracticable, how long would it continue? Not a day-for there is sogreat a disparity in the talents, wisdom and industry of mankind, thatthe scale would.presently preponderate to one or the other body, andwith every accession of power the means of further increase wouldbe greatly extended. The state of society in England is much morefavorable to such a scheme of government than that of America. Therethey have a powerful hereditary nobility, and real distinctions of rankand interests; but even there, for want of that perfect equality of powerand distinction of interests in the three orders of government, theyexist but in name; the only operative and efficient check upon theconduct of administration, is the sense of the people at large.4Suppose a government could be formed and supported on suchprinciples, would it answer the great purposes of civil society? If theadministrators of every government are actuated by views of privateinterest and ambition, how is the welfare and happiness of the community to be the result of such jarring adverse interests?Therefore, as different orders in government will not produce thegood of the whole, we must recur to other principles. I believe it willbe found that the form of government, which holds those entrustedwith power in the greatest responsibility to their constituents, the bestcalculated for freemen. A republican, or free government, can onlyexist where the body of the people are virtuous, and where propertyis pretty equally divided. In such a government the people are thesovereign and their sense or opinion is the criterion of every publicmeasure; for when this ceases to be the case, the nature of the government is changed, and an aristocracy, monarchy or despotism willrise on its ruin.5 The highest responsibility is to be attained in a simplestructure of government, for the great body of the people never steadilyattend to the operations of government, and for want of due information are liable to be imposed on. If you complicate the plan by various orders, the people will be perplexed and divided in their sentiment about the source of abuses or misconduct; some will impute itto the senate, others to the house of representatives, and so on, thatthe interposition of the people may be rendered imperfect or perhapswholly abortive. But if, imitating the constitution of Pennsylvania,you vest all the legislative power in one body of men (separating theexecutive and judicial) elected for a short period, and necessarilyexcluded by rotation from permanency, and guarded from precipitancy and surprise by delays imposed on its proceedings, you willcreate the most perfect responsibility; for then, whenever the peoplefeel a grievance, they cannot mistake the authors, and will apply theremedy with certainty and effect, discarding them at the next election. This tie of responsibility will obviate all the dangers apprehendedfrom a single legislature, and will the best secure the rights of thepeople.Having premised this much, I shall now proceed to the examination of the proposed plan of government, and I trust, shall make itappear to the meanest capacity, that it has none of the essential requisites of a free government; that it is neither founded on those balancing restraining powers, recommended by Mr. Adams and attemptedin the British constitution, or possessed of that responsibility to itsconstituents, which, in my opinion, is the only effectual security forthe liberties and happiness of the people; but on the contrary, that it isa most daring attempt to establish a despotic aristocracy among freemen, that the world has ever witnessed.I shall previously consider the extent of the powers intended to bevested in Congress, before I examine the construction of the generalgovernment.It will not be controverted that the legislative is the highest delegated power in government, and that all others are subordinate to it.The celebrated Montesquieu establishes it as a maxim, that legislation necessarily follows the power of taxation. By sect. 8, of the firstarticle of the proposed plan of government, "the Congress are to havepower to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to paythe debts and provide for the common defense and general welfareof the United States; but all duties, imposts and excises, shall be uniform throughout the United States." Now what can be more compre1hensive than these words? Not content by other sections of this plan,to grant all the great executive powers of a confederation, and a STANDING ARMY IN TIME OF PEACE, that grand engine of oppression, and moreover the absolute control over the commerce of the United States andall external objects of revenue, such as unlimited imposts upon imports, etc., they are to be vested with every species of internal taхаtion; whatever taxes, duties and excises that they may deem requisitefor the general welfare, may be imposed on the citizens of these states,levied by the officers of Congress, distributed through every districtin America; and the collection would be enforced by the standingarmy, however grievoùs or improper they may be. The Congress mayconstrue every purpose for which the State legislatures now lay taxes,to be for the general welfare, and thereby seize upon every object ofrevenue.The judicial power by Article 3d sect. Ist shall extend to all cases,in law and equity, arising under this constitution, the laws of the UnitedStates, and treaties made or which shall be made under their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls; to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, to controversies to which the United States shall be a party, to controversies between two or more States, between a State and citizens of anotherState, between citizens of different States, between citizens of thesame State claiming lands under grants of different States, and betweena State, or the citizens thereof, and foreign States, citizens or subjects.The judicial power to be vested in one Supreme Court, and insuch inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordainand establish.The objects of jurisdiction recited above are so numerous, andthe shades of distinction between civil causes are oftentimes so slight,that it is more than probable that the State judicatories would be whollysuperseded; for in contests about jurisdiction, the federal court, asthe most powerful, would ever prevail. Every person acquainted withthe history of the courts in England, knows by what ingenious sophisms they have, at different periods, extended the sphere of their jurisdiction over objects out of the line of their institution, and contraryto their very nature; courts of a criminal jurisdiction obtaining cognizance in civil causes.1To put the omnipotency of Congress over the State governmentand judicatories out of all doubt, the 6th article ordains that "thisconstitution and the laws of the United States which shall be made inpursuance thereof, and all treaties made, or which shall be made under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law oftheland, and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anythingin the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding."By these sections the all-prevailing power of taxation, and suchextensive legislative and judicial powers are vested in the generalgovernment, as must in their operation necessarily absorb the Statelegislatures and judicatories; and that such was in the contemplationof the framers of it, will appear from the provision made for suchevent, in another part of it (but that, fearful of alarming the people byso great an innovation, they have suffered the forms of the separategovernments to remain, as a blind). By Article Ist sect. 4th, "the times,places and manner of holding elections for senators and representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the legislature thereof; butthe Congress may at any time, by law, make or alter such regulations, except as to the place of choosing senators." The plain construction of which is, that when the State legislatures drop out ofsight, from the necessary operation of this government, then Congress are to provide for the election and appointment of representatives and senators.If the foregoing be a just comment, if the United States are to bemelted down into one empire, it becomes you to consider whethersuch a government, however constructed, would be eligible in soextendedaterritory; and whether it would be practicable, consistentwith freedom? It is the opinion of the greatest writers, that a veryextensive country cannot be governed on democratical principles, onany other plan than a confederation of a number of small republics,possessing all the powers of internal government, but united in themanagement of their foreign and general concerns.It would not be difficult to prove, that anything short of despotism could not bind so great a country under one government; andthat whatever plan you might, at the first setting out, establish, itwould issue in a despotism.If one general government could be instituted and maintained onprinciples of freedom, it would not be so competent to attend to thevarious local concerns and wants, of every particular district, as wellas the peculiar governments, who are nearer the scene, and possessedof superior means of information; besides, if the business of the wholeunion is to be managed by one government, there would not be time.Do we not already see, that the inhabitants in a number of largerStates, who are remote from the seat of government, are loudly complaining of the inconveniences and disadvantages they are subjectedto on this account, and that, to enjoy the comforts of local government, they are separating into smaller divisions?Having taken a review of the powers, I shall now examine theconstruction of the proposed general government.Article Ist, sect. Ist. "All legislative powers herein granted shallbe vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of asenate and house of representatives." By another section, the President (the principal executive officer) has a conditional control overtheir proceedings.Sect. 2d. "The house of representatives shall be composed of members chosen every second year, by the people of the several States.The number of representatives shall not exceed one for every 30,000inhabitants."The senate, the other constituent branch of the legislature, is formedby the legislature of each State appointing two senators, for the termof six years.The executive power by Article 2d, sect. Ist, is to be vested in aPresident of the United States of America, elected for four years:Sec. 2 gives him "power, by and with the consent of the senate tomake treaties, provided two-thirds of the senators present concur;and he shall nominate, and by and with the advice and consent of thesenate, shall appoint ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, judges of the Supreme Court, and all other officers of the UnitedStates, whose appointments are not herein otherwise provided for,and which shall be established by law, etc." And by another sectionhe has the absolute power of granting reprieves and pardons for treason and all other high crimes and misdemeanors, except in case ofimpeachment.12 133.The foregoing are the outlines of the plan.Thus we see, the house of representatives are on the part of thepeople to balance the senate, who I suppose will be composed of thebetter sort, the well born, etc. The number of the representatives (being only one for every 30,000 inhabitants) appears to be too few,either to communicate the requisite information of the wants, localcircumstances and sentiments of so extensive an empire, or to prevent corruption and undue influence, in the exercise of such greatpowers; the term for which they are to be chosen, too long to preserve a due dependence and accountability to their constituents; andthe mode and places of their election not sufficiently ascertained, foras Congress have the control over both, they may govern the choice,by ordering the representatives of a whole State, to be elected in oneplace, and that too may be the most inconvenient.The senate, the great efficient body in this plan of government, isconstituted on the most unequal principles. The smallest State in theUnion has equal weight with the great States of Virginia, Massachusetts or Pennsylvania. The senate, besides its legislative functions,has a very considerable share in the executive; none of the principalappointments to office can be made without its advice and consent.The term and mode of its appointment will lead to permanency; themembers are chosen for six years, the mode is under the control ofCongress, and as there is no exclusion by rotation, they may be continued for life, which, from their extensive means of influence, wouldfollow of course. The President, who would be a mere pageant ofState, unless he coincides with the views of the senate, would eitherbecome the head of the aristocratic junto in that body, or its minion;besides, their influence being the most predominant, could the bestsecure his re-election to office. And from his power of granting pardons, he might screen from punishment the most treasonable attemptson the liberties of the people, when instigated by the senate.From this investigation into the organization of this government,it appears that it is devoid of all responsibility or accountability tothe great body of the people, and that so far from being a regular balanced government, it would be in practice a permanent ARISTOCRACY.The framers of it, actuated by the true spirit of such a government, which ever abominates and suppresses all free inquiry and discussion, have made no provision for the liberty of the press, that grandpalladium of freedom, and scourge of tyrants; but observed a totalsilence on that head. It is the opinion of some great writers, that if theliberty of the press, by an institution of religion or otherwise, couldbe rendered sacred, even in Turkey, that despotism would fly beforeit. And it is worthy of remark that there is no declaration of personalrights, premised in most free constitutions; and that trial by jury incivil cases is taken away; for what other construction can be put onthe following, viz: Article 3d, sect. 2d, "In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and those in which a Stateshall be party, the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. Inall the other cases above mentioned, the Supreme Court shall haveappellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact!" It would be a noveltyin jurisprudence, as well as evidently improper, to allow an appealfrom the verdict of a jury, on the matter of fact; therefore it impliesand allows of a dismission of the jury in civil cases, and especiallywhen it is considered, that jury trial in criminal cases is expresslystipulated for, but not in civil cases.But our situation is represented to be so critically dreadful, that,however reprehensible and exceptionable the proposed plan of government may be, there is no alternative between the adoption of itand absolute ruin. My fellow citizens, things are not at that crisis; itis the argument of tyrants; the present distracted state of Europe secures us from injury on that quarter, and as to domestic dissensions,we have not so much to fear from them, as to precipitate us into thisform of government, without it is a safe and a proper one. For remember, of all possible evils, that of despotism is the worst and themost to be dreaded.7Besides, it cannot be supposed that the first essay on so difficult asubject, is so well digested as it ought to be; if the proposed plan,after a mature deliberation, should meet the approbation of the respective States, the matter will end; but if it should be found to befraught with dangers and inconveniences, a future general Convention, being in possession of the objections, will be the better enabledto plan a suitable government.14 1"WHO'S HERE SO BASE, THAT WOULD A BONDMAN BE?IF ANY, SPÉAK; FOR HIM HAVE I OFFENDED.WHO'S HERE SO VILE, THAT WILL NOT LOVE HIS COUNTRY?IF ANY, SPEAK; FOR HIM HAVE I OFFENDED."16.To the PEOPLE of PENNSYLVANIA. Friends, Countrymen, and Fellow Citizens.As long as the liberty of the press continues unviolated, and thepeople have the right of expressing and publishing their sentimentsupon every public measure, it is next to impossible to enslave a freenation. The state of society must be very corrupt and base indeed,when the people, in possession of such a monitor as the press, can beinduced to exchange the heaven-born blessings of liberty for the galling chains of despotism. Men of an aspiring and tyrannical disposition, sensible of this truth, have ever been inimical to the press, andhave considered the shackling of it as the first step towards the aсcomplishment of their hateful domination, and the entire suppression of all liberty of public discussion, as necessary to its support.For even a standing army, that grand engine of oppression, if it wereas numerous as the abilities of any nation could maintain, would notbe equal to the purposes of despotism over an enlightened people.The abolition of that grand palladium of freedom, the liberty ofthe press, in the proposed plan of government, and the conduct of itsauthors and patrons, is a striking exemplification of these observations. The reason assigned for the omission of a bill of rights, securing the liberty of the press, and other invaluable personal rights, isan insult on the understanding of the people.The injunction of secrecy imposed on the members of the lateConvention during their deliberations, was obviously dictated by thegenius of Aristocracy; it was deemed impolitic to unfold the principles of the intended government to the people, as this would havefrustrated the object in view.The projectors of the new plan, supposed that an ex parte discussion of the subject, was more likely to obtain unanimity in the Convention; which would give it such a sanction in the public opinion,as to banish all distrust, and lead the people into an implicit adoptionof it without examination.The greatest minds are forcibly impressed by the immediate circumstances with which they are connected; the particular sphere menmove in, the prevailing sentiments of those they converse with, havean insensible and irresistible influence on the wisest and best ofmankind; so that when we consider the abilities, talents, ingenuity1and consummate address of a number of members of the late Convention, whose principles are despotic, can we be surprised that menof the best intentions have been misled in the difficult science ofgovernment? Is it derogating from the character of the illustriousand highly revered WASHINGTON, to suppose him fallible on a subjectthat must be in a great measure novel to him? As a patriotic hero, hestands unequalled in the annals of time.The new plan was accordingly ushered to the public with such asplendor of names, as inspired the most unlimited confidence; thepeople were disposed to receive upon trust, without any examinationon their part, what would have proved either a blessing or a curse tothem and their posterity. What astonishing infatuation! to stake theirhappiness on the wisdom and integrity of any set of men! In mattersof infinitely smaller concern, the dictates of prudence are not disregarded! The celebrated Montesquieu, in his Spirit of Laws, says, that"slavery is ever preceded by sleep." And again, in his account of therise and fall of the Roman Empire, page 97, "That it may be advanced as a general rule, that in a free State, whenever a perfect calmis visible, the spirit of liberty no longer subsists." And Mr. Dickinson,in his Farmer's Letters, No. XI., lays it down as a maxim, that "Аperpetual jealousy respecting liberty is absolutely requisite in all freeStates."1"Happy are the men, and happy the people, who grow wise by themisfortunes of others. Earnestly, my dear countrymen, do I beseechthe author of all good gifts, that you may grow wise in this manner,and I beg leave to recommend to you in general, as the best methodof obtaining this wisdom, diligently to study the histories of othercountries. You will there find all the arts, that can possibly be practised by cunning rulers, or false patriots among yourselves, so fullydelineated, that changing names, the account would serve for yourown times."A few citizens of Philadelphia (too few, for the honor of humannature) who had the wisdom to think consideration ought to precedeapprobation, and the fortitude to avow that they would take time tojudge for themselves on so momentous an occasion, were stigmatized as enemies to their country; as monsters, whose existence oughtnot to be suffered, and the destruction of them and their houses rec1ommended, as meritorious. The authors of the new plan, consciousthat itwould not stand the test of enlightened patriotism, tyrannicallyendeavored to preclude all investigation. If their views were laudable, if they were honest, the contrary would have been their conduct, they would have invited the freest discussion. Whatever specious reasons may be assigned for secrecy during the framing of theplan, no good one can exist for leading the people blindfolded intothe implicit adoption of it. Such an attempt does not augur the publicgood-it carries on the face of it an intention to juggle the people outof their liberties.The virtuous and spirited exertions of a few patriots have at lengthroused the people from their fatal infatuation to a due sense of theimportance of the measure before them. The glare and fascination ofnames is rapidly abating, and the subject begins to be canvassed onits own merits; and so serious and general has been the impression ofthe objection urged against the new plan, on the minds of the people,that its advocates, finding mere declamation and scurrility will nolonger avail, are reluctantly driven to defend it on the ground of argument. Mr. Wilson, one of the deputies of this State in the late Convention, has found it necessary to come forward.2 From so able alawyer, and so profound a politician, what might not be expected, ifthis act of Convention be the heavenly dispensation which some represent it? Its divinity would certainly be illustrated by one of the principal instruments of the Revelation; for this gentleman has that transcendent merit! But if, on the other hand, this able advocate has failedto vindicate it from the objections of its adversaries, must we notconsider it as the production of frail and interested men.Mr. Wilson has recourse to the most flimsy sophistry in his attempt to refute the charge that the new plan of general governmentwill supersede and render powerless the state governments. Hisquibble upon the term Corporation, as sometimes equivalent to communities which possess sovereignty, is unworthy of him. The samecomparison in the case of the British parliament assuming to tax thecolonies, is made in the Xth of the Farmer's Letters, and was notmisunderstood in 1768 by any.3 He says that the existence of theproposed federal plan depends on the existence of the State governments, as the senators are to be appointed by the several legislatures,1who are also to nominate the electors who choose the President ofthe United States; and that hence all fears of the several states beingmelted down into one empire, are groundless and imaginary. But whois so dull as not to comprehend, that semblance and forms of an ancient establishment may remain, after the reality is gone. Augustus,by the aid of a great army, assumed despotic power, and notwithstanding this, we find even under Tiberius, Caligula and Nero, princeswho disgraced human nature by their excesses, the shadows of theancient constitution held up to amuse the people. The senate sat asformerly; consuls, tribunes of the people, censors and other officerswere annually chosen as before, and the forms of republican government continued. Yet all this was in appearance only.-Every senatusconsultum was dictated by him or his ministers, and every Romanfound himself constrained to submit in all things to the despot.Mr. Wilson asks, "What control can proceed from the federal government to shackle or destroy that sacred palladium of natural freedom, the liberty of the press?" What! Cannot Congress, when possessed of the immense authority proposed to be devolved, restrainthe printers, and put them under regulation? Recollect that the omnipotence of the federal legislature over the State establishments, isrecognized by a special article, viz.,-"that this Constitution, and thelaws of the United States which shall be the supreme law of the land;and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any thing in theConstitutions or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding."After such a declaration, what security do the Constitutions of theseveral States afford for the liberty of the press and other invaluablepersonal rights, not provided for by the new plan? Does not thissweeping clause subject everything to the control of Congress?In the plan of Confederation of 1778, now existing, it was thoughtproper by Article the 2d, to declare that "each State retains its sovereignty, freedom and independence, and every power, jurisdiction andright, which is not by this Confederation expressly delegated to theUnited States in Congress assembled." Positive grant was not thenthought sufficiently descriptive and restraining upon Congress, andthe omission of such a declaration now, when such great devolutionsof power are proposed, manifests the design of reducing the severalStates to shadows. But Mr. Wilson tells you, that every right and2power not specially granted to Congress is considered as withheld.How does this appear? Is this principle established by the properauthority? Has the Convention made such a stipulation? By no means.Quite the reverse; the laws of Congress are to be "the supreme law ofthe land, any thing in the Constitutions or laws of any State to thecontrary notwithstanding;" and consequently, would be paramountto all State authorities. The lust of power is so universal, that a speculative unascertained rule of construction would be a poor security forthe liberties of the people.Such a body as the intended Congress, unless particularly inhibited and restrained, must grasp at omnipotence, and before long swallow up the legislative, the executive, and the judicial powers of theseveral States.In addition to the respectable authorities quoted in my first number, to show that the right of taxation includes all the powers of government, I beg leave to adduce the Farmer's Letters, see particularlyletter 9th, in which Mr. Dickinson has clearly proved, that if the British Parliament assumed the power of taxing the colonies, internally,as well as externally, and it should be submitted to, the several colonylegislatures would soon become contemptible, and before long fallinto disuse. Nothing, says he, would be left for them to do, higherthan to frame by-laws for empounding of cattle or the yoking of hogs.By the proposed plan, there are divers cases of judicial authorityto be given to the courts of the United States, besides the two mentioned by Mr. Wilson. In maritime causes about property, jury trialhas not been usual; but in suits in equity, with all due deference toMr. Wilson's professional abilities, (which he calls to his aid) jurytrial, as to facts, is in full exercise. Will this jurisperitus say that ifthequestion in equity should be, did John Doe make a will, that the chancellor of England would decide upon it? He well knows that in thiscase, there being no mode of jury trial before the chancellor, the question would be referred to the court of king's bench for discussionaccording to the common law, and when the judge in equity shouldreceive the verdict, the fact so established could never be re-examined or controverted. Maritime causes and those appertaining to acourt of equity, are, however, but two of the many and extensive subjects of federal cognizance mentioned in the plan. This jurisdiction2will embrace all suits arising under the laws of impost, excise andother revenue of the United States. In England if goods be seized, ifa ship be prosecuted for non-compliance with, or breach of the lawsof the customs, or those for regulating trade, in the courts of exchequer, the claimant is secured by the transcendent privilege of Englishmen, trial by a jury of his peers. Why not in the United States ofAmerica? This jurisdiction also goes to all cases under the laws ofthe United States, that is to say, under all statutes and ordinances ofCongress. How far this may extend, itis easy to foresee; for upon thedecay of the state powers of legislation, in consequence of the loss ofthe purse-strings, it will be found necessary for the federal legislature to make laws upon every subject of legislation. Hence the statecourts of justice, like the barony and hundred courts of England, willbe eclipsed and gradually fall into disuse.The jurisdiction of the federal court goes, likewise, to the laws tobe created by treaties, made by the President and Senate (a species oflegislation) with other nations; "to all cases affecting foreign ministers and consuls; to controversies wherein the United States shall bea party; to controversies between citizens of different states," as whenan inhabitant of New York has a demand on an inhabitant of NewJersey. This last is a very invidious jurisdiction, implying an improperdistrust of the impartiality and justice of the tribunals of the states. Itwill include all legal debates between foreigners in Britain, or elsewhere, and the people of this country. A reason hath been assignedfor it, viz: "That large tracts of land, in neighboring states, are claimedunder royal tracts or other grants, disputed by the states where thelands lie, so that justice cannot be expected from the state tribunals."Suppose it were proper indeed to provide for such cases, why include all cases, and for all time to come? Demands as to land for 21years would have satisfied this. A London merchant shall come toAmerica, and sue for his supposed debt, and the citizen of this country shall be deprived of jury trial, and subjected to an appeal (tho'nothing but the fact is disputed) to a court 500 or 1000 miles fromhome; when if this American has a claim upon an inhabitant of England, his adversary is secured of the privilege of jury trial. This jurisdiction goes also to controversies between any state and its citizens, which, though probably not intended, may hereafter be set up2as a ground to divest the states, severally, of the trial of criminals;inasmuch as every charge of felony or misdemeanor, is a controversybetween the state and a citizen of the same: that is to say, the state isplaintiff and the party accused is defendant in the prosecution. In alldoubts about jurisprudence, as was observed before, the paramountcourts of Congress will decide, and the judges of the state, being subgraviore lege, under the paramount law, must acquiesce.Mr. Wilson says that it would have been impracticable to havemade a general rule for jury trial in the civil cases assigned to thefederal judiciary, because of the want of uniformity in the mode ofjury trial, as practiced by the several states. This objection proves toomuch, and therefore amounts to nothing. If it precludes the mode ofcommon law in civil cases, it certainly does in criminal. Yet in thesewe are told "the oppression of government is effectually barred bydeclaring that in all criminal cases trial by jury shall be preserved."Astonishing that provision could not be made for a jury in civil controversies of twelve men, whose verdict should be unanimous, to betaken form the vicinage; a precaution which is omitted as to trial ofcrimes, which may be anywhere in the State within which they havebeen committed. So that an inhabitant of Kentucky may be tried fortreason at Richmond.The abolition of jury trial in civil cases, is the more considerable,as at length the courts of Congress will supersede the state courts,when such mode of trial will fall into disuse among the people of theUnited States.The northern nations of the European continent have all lost thisinvaluable privilege: Sweden, the last of them, by the artifices of thearistocratic senate, which depressed the king and reduced the houseof commons to insignificance. But the nation a few years ago preferring the absolute authority of a monarch to the vexatious dominationof the well-born few, an end was suddenly put to their power."The policy of this right of juries, (says Judge Blackstone) to decide upon fact, is founded on this: That if the power of judging wereentirely trusted with the magistrates, or any select body of men, namedby the executive authority, their decisions, in spite of their own natural integrity, would have a bias towards those of their own rank anddignity; for it is not to be expected, that the few should be attentive to2the rights of the many. This therefore preserves in the hands of thepeople, that share which they ought to have in the administration ofjustice, and prevents the encroachments of the more powerful andwealthy citizens."The attempt of governor Colden, of New York, before the Revolution, to re-examine the facts and re-consider the damages, in thecase of Forsey against Cunningham, produced about the year 1764 aflame of patriotic and successful opposition, that will not be easilyforgotten.To manage the various and extensive judicial authority, proposedto be vested in Congress, there will be one or more inferior courtsimmediately requisite in each State; and laws and regulations mustbe forthwith provided to direct the judges-here is a wide door forinconvenience to enter. Contracts made under the acts of the Statesrespectively, will come before courts acting under new laws and newmodes of proceedings, not thought of when they were entered into.An inhabitant of Pennsylvania residing at Pittsburgh, finds the goodsof his debtor, who resides in Virginia, within the reach of his attachment; but no writ can be had to authorize the marshal, sheriff, orother officer of Congress, to seize the property, about to be removed,nearer than 200 miles: suppose that at Carlisle, for instance, such awrit may be had, meanwhile the object escapes. Or if an inferior courtwhose judges have ample salaries, be established in every county,would not the expense be enormous? Every reader can extend in hisimagination, the 'instances of difficulty which would proceed fromthis needless interference with the judicial rights of the separate States,and which as much as any other circumstance in the new plan, implies that the dissolution of their forms of government is designed.Mr. Wilson skips very lightly over the danger apprehended fromthe standing army allowed by the new plan. This grand machine ofpower and oppression, may be made a fatal instrument to overturnthe public liberties, especially as the funds to support the troops maybe granted for two years, whereas in Britain the grants ever since therevolution in 1688, have been from year to year. A standing armywith regular provision of pay and contingencies, would afford a strongtemptation to some ambitious man to step up into the throne, and toseize absolute power. The keeping on foot a hired military force in2time ofpeace, ought not to be gone into unless two-thirds of the members of the federal legislature agree to the necessity of the measure,and adjust the numbers employed. Surely Mr. Wilson is not seriouswhen he adduces the instance of the troops now stationed on the Ohio,as a proof of the propriety of a standing army. They are a mere occаsional armament for the purpose of restraining divers hostile tribesof savages. It is contended that under the present confederation, Congress possess the power of raising armies at pleasure; but the opportunity which the States severally have of withholding the suppliesnecessary to keep these armies on foot, is a sufficient check on thepresent Congress.Mr. Wilson asserts, that never was charge made with less reason,than that which predicts the institution of a baneful aristocracy in thefederal Senate. In my first number, I stated that this body would be avery unequal representation of the several States, that the membersbeing appointed for the long term of six years, and there being noexclusion by rotation, they might be continued for life, which wouldfollow of course from their extensive means of influence, and thatpossessing a considerable share in the executive as well as legislative, it would become a permanent aristocracy, and swallow up theother orders in the government.That these fears are not imaginary, a knowledge of the history ofother nations, where the powers of government have been injudiciously placed, will fully demonstrate. Mr. Wilson says, "the senatebranches into two characters; the one legislative and the other executive. In its legislative character it can effect no purpose, without theco-operation of the house of representatives, and in its executive character it can accomplish no object without the concurrence ofthe president. Thus fettered, I do not know any act which the senate can ofitself perform, and such dependence necessarily precludes every ideaof influence and superiority." This I confess is very specious, butexperience demonstrates that checks in government, unless accompanied with adequate power and independently placed, prove merelynominal, and will be inoperative. Is it probable, that the President ofthe United States, limited as he is in power, and dependent on thewill of the senate, in appointments to office, will either have the firmness or inclination to exercise his prerogative of a conditional con2trol upon the proceedings of that body, however injurious they maybe to the public welfare? It will be his interest to coincide with theviews of the senate, and thus become the head of the aristocraticjunto. The king of England is a constituent part in the legislature, butalthough an hereditary monarch, in possession of the whole executive power, including the unrestrained appointment to offices, and animmense revenue, enjoys but in name the prerogative of a negativeupon the parliament. Even the king of England, circumstanced as heis, has not dared to exercise it for near a century past. The check ofthe house of representatives upon the senate will likewise be rendered nugatory for want of due weight in the democratic branch, andfrom their constitution they may become so independent of the peopleas to be indifferent of its interests: nay, as Congress would have thecontrol over the mode and place of their election, by ordering therepresentatives of a whole state to be elected at one place, and thattoo the most inconvenient, the ruling powers may govern the choice,and thus the house of representatives may be composed of the creatures of the senate. Still the semblance of checks may remain, butwithout operation.This mixture of the legislative and executive moreover highlytends to corruption. The chief improvement in government, in modern times, has been the complete separation of the great distinctionsof power; placing the legislative in different hands from those whichhold the executive; and again severing thejudicial part from the ordinary administrative."When the legislative and executive powers (saysMontesquieu) are united in the same person, or in the same body ofmagistrates, there can be no liberty."Mr. Wilson confesses himself not satisfied with the organizationof the federal senate, and apologizes for it, by alleging a sort of compromise. It is well known that some members of convention, apprizedof the mischiefs of such a compound of authority, proposed to assignthe supreme executive powers to the president and a small council,made personally responsible for every appointment to office, or otheract, by having their opinions recorded; and that without the concurrence of the majority of the quorum of this council, the presidentshould not be capable of taking any step. Such a check upon the chiefmagistrate would admirably secure the power of pardoning, now pro2posed to be exercised by the president alone, from abuse. For as it isplaced he may shelter the traitors whom he himself or his coadjutorsin the senate have excited to plot against the liberties of the nation.The delegation of the power of taxation to Congress, as far asduties on imported commodities, has not been objected to. But toextend this to excises, and every species of internal taxation, wouldnecessarily require so many ordinances of Congress, affecting thebody of the people, as would perpetually interfere with the State lawsand personal concerns of the people. This alone would directly tendto annihilate the particular governments; for the people fatigued withthe operation of two masters would be apt to rid themselves of theweaker. But we are cautioned against being alarmed with imaginaryevils, for Mr. Wilson has predicted that the great revenue of the UnitedStates will be raised by impost. Is there any ground for this? Will theimpost supply the sums necessary to pay the interest and principal ofthe foreign loan, to defray the great additional expense of the newconstitution; for the policy of the neew government will lead it to institute numerous and lucrative civil offices, to extend its influenceand provide for the swarms of expectants (the people having in factno control upon its disbursements), and to afford pay and support forthe proposed standing army, that darling and long-wished forobjectof the well-born of America; and which, if we may judge from theprinciples of the intended government, will be no trifling establishment, for cantonments of troops in every district of America will benecessary to compel the submission of the people to the arbitrarydictates of the ruling powers? I say, will the impost be adequate? Byno means. To answer these there must be excises and other indirectduties imposed, and as land taxes will operate too equally to be agreeable to the wealthy aristocracy in the senate who will be possessed ofthe government, poll taxes will be substituted, as provided for in thenew plan; for the doctrine then will be that slaves ought to pay forwearing their heads.As the taxes necessary for these purposes will drain your pocketsof every penny, what is to become of that virtuous and meritoriousclass of citizens, the public creditors? However well disposed thepeople of the United States may be to do them justice, it would not bein their power; and, after waiting year after year, without prospect of2the payment of the interest or principal of the debt, they will be constrained to sacrifice their certificates in the purchase of waste landsin the far distant wilds of the western territory.From the foregoing illustration of the powers proposed to be devolved to Congress, it is evident that the general government wouldnecessarily annihilate the particular governments, and that the security of the personal rights of the people by the state constitutions issuperseded and destroyed; hence results the necessity of such security being provided for by a bill of rights to be inserted in the newplan of federal government. What excuse can we then make for theomission of this grand palladium, this barrier between liberty andoppression? For universal experience demonstrates the necessity ofthe most express declarations and restrictions, to protect the rightsand liberties of mankind from the silent, powerful and ever-activeconspiracy of those who govern.The new plan, it is true, does propose to secure the people of thebenefit of personal liberty by the habeas corpus, and trial by jury forall crimes, except in case of impeachment: but there is no declaration, that all men have a natural and unalienable right to worshipAlmighty God, according to the dictates of their own consciencesand understanding; and that no man ought, or of right can be compelled to attend any religious worship, or erect or support any placeof worship, or maintain any ministry, contrary to, or against his ownfree will and consent; and that no authority can or ought to be vestedin, or assumed by any power whatever, that shall in any case interfere with, or in any manner control, the right of conscience in the freeexercise of religious worship: that the trial by jury in civil causes aswell as criminal, and the modes prescribed by the common law forsafety of life in criminal prosecutions, shall be held sacred; that therequiring of excessive bail, imposing of excessive fines and crueland unusual punishments be forbidden; that monopolies in trade orarts, other than to authors of books or inventors of useful arts forreasonable time, ought not to be suffered; that the right of the peopleto assemble peaceably for the purpose of consulting about publicmatters, and petitioning or remonstrating to the federal legislature,ought not to be prevented; that the liberty ofthe press be held sacréd;that the people have a right to hold themselves, their houses, papers2and possessions free from search or seizure; and that therefore warrants without oaths or affirmations first made affording a sufficientfoundation for them, and whereby any officer or messenger may becommanded or required to search suspected places, or to seize anyperson or his property, not particularly described, are contrary to thatright and ought not to be granted; and that standing armies in time ofpeace are dangerous to liberty; and ought not to be permitted butwhen absolutely necessary; all which is omitted to be done in theproposed government.But Mr. Wilson says, the new plan does not arrogate perfection,for it provides a mode of alteration and correction, if found necessary. This is one among the numerous deceptions attempted on thisoccasion. True, there is a mode prescribed for this purpose. But it isbarely possible that amendments may be made. The fascination ofpower must first cease, the nature of mankind undergo a revolution,that is not to be expected on this side of eternity. For to effect this(Art. 6) it is provided, that if two-thirds of both houses of the federallegislature shall propose them, or when two thirds of the several Statesby their legislatures shall apply for them, the federal assembly shallcall a convention for proposing amendments, which when ratified bythree-fourths of the State legislatures, or conventions, as Congressshall see best, shall control and alter the proposed confederation. Doeshistory abound with examples of a voluntary relinquishment of power,however injurious to the community? No; it would require a generaland successful rising of the people to effect anything of this nature.The provision therefore is mere sound.The opposition to the new plan (says Mr. Wilson) proceeds frominterested men, viz., the officers of the state governments. He hadbefore denied that the proposed transfer of powers to Congress wouldannihilate the state governments. But he here lays aside the masque,and avows the fact. For, the truth of the charge against them mustentirely rest on such consequence of the new plan. For if the stateestablishments are to remain unimpaired, why should officers peculiarly connected with them, be interested to oppose the adoption ofthe new plan? Except the collector of the impost, judge of the admiralty, and the collectors of excise, (none of whom have been reckoned of the opposition) they would otherwise have nothing to appre2hend. But the charge is unworthy and may with more propriety beretorted on the expectants of office and emolument under the intendedgovernment.The opposition is not so partial and interested as Mr. Wilson asserts. It consists of a respectable yeomanry throughout the union, ofcharacters far removed above the reach of his unsupported assertions.It comprises many worthy members of the late convention, and amajority of the present Congress, for a motion made in that honorable body, for their approbation and recommendation of the new plan,was after two days' animated discussion, prudently withdrawn by itsadvocates, and a simple transmission of the plan to the several statescould only be obtained; yet this has been palmed upon the people asthe approbation of Congress; and to strengthen the deception, thebells of the city of Philadelphia were rung for a whole day.Are Mr. Wn,³ and many of his coadjutors in the late Cn,the disinterested patriots they would have us believe? Is their conduct any recommendation of this plan of government? View themthe foremost and loudest on the floor of Congress, in our assembly, attown meetings in sounding its eulogiums:-view them preventinginvestigation and discussion, and in the most despotic manner endeavoring to compel its adoption by the people, with such precipitancy as to preclude the possibility of a due consideration, and thensay whether the motives of these men can be pure.My fellow citizens, such false detestable patriots in every nation,have led their blind confiding country, shouting their applauses, intothe jaws of despotism and ruin. May the wisdom and virtue of thepeople of America save them from the usual fate of nations.30.To the PEOPLE OF PENNSYLVANIA.John 3d, verse 20th.-"For every one that doeth evil, hateth thelight, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved."But "there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed; neither hidthat shall not be known. Therefore whatever ye have spoken in darkness, shall be heard in the light: and thatwhich ye have spoken in theear in closets, shall be proclaimed on the housetops."-St. Luke,chap. xii, 2d and 3d verses.Friends, Countrymen, and Fellow Citizens!The formation of a good government is the greatest effort of human wisdom, actuated by disinterested patriotism; but such is thecursed nature of ambition, so prevalent among men, that it wouldsacrifice everything to its selfish gratification; hence the fairest opportunities of advancing the happiness of humanity, are so far frombeing properly improved, that they are too often converted by thevotaries of power and domination, into the means of obtaining theirnefarious ends. It will be the misfortune of America of adding to thenumber of examples of this kind, if the proposed plan of governmentshould be adopted; but I trust, short as the time allowed yet for consideration is, you will be so fully convinced of the truth of this, as toescape the impending danger; it is not necessary to strip the monsterof its assumed garb, and to exhibit it in its native colours, to excitethe universal abhorrence and rejection of every virtuous and patrioticmind.For the sake of my dear country, for the honor of human nature, Ihope and am persuaded that the good sense of the people will enablethem to rise superior to the most formidable conspiracy against theliberties of a free and enlightened nation, that the world has everwitnessed. How glorious would be the triumph! How it would immortalize the present generation in the annals of freedom!The establishment of a government, is a subject of such momentous and lasting concern, that it should not be gone into without theclearest conviction of its propriety, which can only be the result ofthe fullest discussion, the most thorough investigation and dispassionate consideration of its nature, principles and construction. Youare now called upon to make this decision, which involves in it notonly your fate, but that of your posterity for ages to come. Your de3proposed government, surprises me much; if so many of the Quakershave become indifferent to the sacred rights of conscience, so amplysecured by the constitution of this commonwealth; if they are satisfied to rest this inestimable privilege on the discretion of the futuregovernment; yet in a political light they are not acting wisely: in thestate of Pennsylvania, they form so considerable a portion of the community, as must ensure them great weight in the government; but inthe scale of general empire, they will be lost in the balance.I intended in this number to have shown from the nature of things,from the opinions of the greatest writers and from the peculiar circumstances of the United States, the impracticability of establishingand maintaining one government on the principles of freedom in soextensive a territory; to have shown, if practicable, the inadequacy ofsuch government to provide for its many and various concerns; andalso to have shown that a confederation of small republics, possessing all the powers of internal government, and united in the management of their general and foreign concerns, is the only system ofgovernment by which so extensive a country can be governed consistent with freedom: but a writer under the signature of Brutus, inthe New York paper, which has been re-published by Messrs. Dunlapand Claypoole,5 has done this in so masterly a manner, that it wouldbe superfluous in me to add anything on this subject.My fellow citizens, as a lover of my country, as the friend to mankind, whilst it is yet safe to write, and whilst it is yet in your power toavoid it, I warn you of the impending danger. To this remote quarterof the world has liberty fled. Other countries now subject to slavery,were once as free as we yet are; therefore for your own sakes, for thesake of your posterity, as well as for that of the oppressed of all nations, cherish this remaining asylum of liberty.To the PEOPLE OF PENNSYLVANIA. Friends, Countrymen and FellowCitizens,That the present confederation is inadequate to the objects of theunion, seems to be universally allowed. The only question is, whatadditional powers are wanting to give due energy to the federal government? We should, however, be careful, in forming our opinion onthis subject, not to impute the temporary and extraordinary difficulties that have hitherto impeded the execution of the confederation, todefects in the system itself. Taxation is in every government a verydelicate and difficult subject; hence it has been the policy of all wisestatesmen, as far as circumstances permitted, to lead the people bysmall beginnings and almost imperceptible degrees, into the habitsof taxation; where the contrary conduct has been pursued, it has everfailed of full success, not unfrequently proving the ruin of the projectors. The imposing of a burdensome tax at once on a people, withoutthe usual gradations, is the severest test that any government can beput to; despotism itself has often proved unequal to the attempt. Under this conviction, let us take a review of our situation before andsince the revolution. From the first settlement of this country untilthe commencement of the late war, the taxes were so light and trivialas to be scarcely felt by the people; when we engaged in the expensive contest with Great Britain, the Congress, sensible of the difficulty of levying the moneys necessary to its support, by direct taxation, had resource to an anticipation of the public resources, by emitting bills of credit, and thus postponed the necessity of taxation forseveral years; this means was pursued to a most ruinous length; butabout the year 80 or 81, it was wholly exhausted, the bills of credithad suffered such a depreciation from the excessive quantities in circulation, that they ceased to be useful as a medium. The country atthis period was very much impoverished and exhausted; commercehad been suspended for near six years; the husbandman, for want ofa market, limited his crops to his own subsistence; the frequent callsof the militia and long continuance in actual service, the devastationsof the enemy, the subsistence of our own armies, the evils of thedepreciation of the paper money, which fell chiefly upon the patriotic and virtuous part of the community, had all concurred to produce great distress throughout America. In this situation of affairs,3we still had the same powerful enemy to contend with, who had evenmore numerous and better appointed armies in the field than at anyformer time. Our allies were applied to in this exigence, but the pecuniary assistance that we could procure from them was soon exhausted; the only resource now remaining was to obtain by directtaxation, the moneys necessary for our defence. The history of mankind does not furnish a similar instance of an attempt to levy suchenormous taxes at once, of a people so wholly unprepared anduninured to them-the lamp of sacred liberty must indeed have burnedwith unsullied lustre, every sordid principle of the mind must havebeen then extinct, when the people not only submitted to the grievous impositions, but cheerfully exerted themselves to comply withthe calls of their country; their abilities, however, were not equal tofurnish the necessary sums-indeed the requisition of the year 1782,amounted to the whole income of their farms and other property,including the means of their subsistence; perhaps the strained exertions of two years, would not have sufficed to the discharge of thisrequisition; how then can we impute the difficulties of the people toa due compliance with the requisitions of Congress, to a defect in theconfederation? for any government, however energetic, in similarcircumstances, would have experienced the same fate. If we reviewthe proceedings of the states, we shall find that they gave every sanction and authority to the requisitions of Congress that their laws couldconfer, that they attempted to collect the sums called for in the samemanner as is proposed to be done in future by the general government, instead of the State legislatures.It is a maxim that a government ought to be cautious not to govern over much, for when the cord of power is drawn too tight, itgenerally proves its destruction. The impracticability of complyingwith the requisitions of Congress has lessened the sense of obligation and duty in the people, and thus weakened the ties of the union;the opinion of power in a free government is much more efficaciousthan the exercise of it; it requires the maturity of time and repeatedpractice to give due energy and certainty to the operations of government, especially to such as affect the purses of the people.The thirteen Swiss Cantons, confederated by more general andweaker ties than these United States are by the present articles of4confederation, have not experienced the necessity of strengtheningtheir union by vesting the general diet with further or greater powers;this national body has only the management of their foreign concerns, and in case of a war can only call by requisition on the severalCantons for the necessary supplies, who are sovereign and independent in every internal and local exercise of government-and yet thisrope of sand, as our confederation has been termed, which is so similar to that, has held together for ages without any apparent chasm.I am persuaded that a due consideration will evince, that the presentinefficacy of the requisitions of Congress is not owing to a defect inthe confederation, but the peculiar circumstances of the times.The wheels of the general government having been thus clogged,and the arrearages of taxes still accumulating, it may be asked whatprospect is there of the government resuming its proper tone, unlessmore compulsory powers are granted? To this it may be answered,that the produce of imposts on commerce, which all agree to vest inCongress, together with the immense tracts of land at their disposal,will rapidly lessen and eventually discharge the present encumbrances;when this takes place, the mode by requisition will be found perfectly adequate to the extraordinary exigencies of the union. Congress have lately sold land to the amount of eight millions of dollars,which is a considerable portion of the whole debt.It is to be lamented that the interested and designing have availedthemselves so successfully of the present crisis, and under the specious pretence of having discovered a panacea for all the ills of thepeople, they are about establishing a system of government, thatwill prove more destructive to them than the wooden horse filledwith soldiers did in ancient times to the city of Troy: this horse wasintroduced by their hostile enemy the Grecians, by a prostitution ofthe sacred rites of their religion; in like manner, my fellow citizens,are aspiring despots among yourselves prostituting the name of aWashington to cloak their designs upon your liberties.I would ask how is the proposed government to shower downthose treasures upon every class of citizens, as is so industriouslyinculcated and so fondly believed? Is it by the addition of numerousand expensive establishments? Is it by doubling our judiciaries, instituting federal courts in every county of every state? Is it by a su4perb presidential court? Is it by a large standing army? In short, is itby putting it in the power of the future government to levy money atpleasure, and placing this government so independent of the peopleas to enable the administration to gratify every corrupt passion of themind, to riot on your spoils, without check or control?A transfer to Congress of the power of imposing imposts on commerce and the unlimited regulation of trade, I believe is all that iswanting to render America as prosperous as it is in the power of anyform of government to render her; this properly understood wouldmeet the view of all the honest and well-meaning.What gave birth to the late Continental Convention? Was it notthe situation of our commerce, which lay at the mercy of every foreign power, who from motives of interest or enmity could restrictand control it, without risking a retaliation on the part of America, asCongress was impotent on this subject? Such indeed was the casewith respect to Britain, whose hostile regulations gave such a stab toour navigation as to threaten its annihilation: it became the interest ofeven the American merchant to give a preference to foreign bottoms;hence the distress of our seamen, shipwrights, and every mechanicart dependent on navigation.By these regulations too we were limited in markets for our produce; our vessels were excluded from their West India Islands, manyof our staple commodities were denied entrance in Britain; hence thehusbandmen were distressed by the demand for their crops beinglessened and their prices reduced. This is the source to which may betraced every evil we experience, that can be relieved by a more energetic government. Recollect the language of complaint for years past,compare the recommendations of Congress founded on such complaints, pointing out the remedy, examine the reasons assigned bythe different States for appointing delegates to the late Convention,view the powers vested in that body; they all harmonize in one sentiment, that the due regulation of trade and navigation was the anxiouswish of every class of citizens, was the great object of calling theConvention.This object being provided for by the proposed Constitution, thepeople overlook and are not sensible of the needless sacrifice theyare making for it. Of what avail will be a prosperous state of com4merce, when the produce of it will be at the absolute disposal of anarbitrary and unchecked government, who may levy at pleasure themost oppressive taxes; who may destroy every principle of freedom;and may even destroy the privilege of complaining.If you are in doubt about the nature and principles of the proposed government, view the conduct of its authors and patrons: thataffords the best explanation, the most striking comment.The evil genius of darkness presided at its birth, it came forthunder the veil of mystery, its true features being carefully concealed,and every deceptive art has been and is practising to have this spurious brat received as the genuine offspring of heaven-born liberty. Sofearful are its patrons that you should discern the imposition, thatthey have hurried on its adoption with the greatest precipitation; theyhave endeavored also to preclude all investigation, they have endeavored to intimidate all opposition; by such means as these, have theysurreptitiously procured a Convention in this State, favorable to theirviews; and here again investigation and discussion are abridged, thefinal question is moved before the subject has been under consideration, an appeal to the people is precluded even in the last resort, lesttheir eyes should be opened; the Convention have denied the minority the privilege of entering the reasons of their dissent on its journals. Thus despotism is already triumphant, and the genius of libertyis on the eve of her exit, is about bidding an eternal adieu to this oncehappy people.After so recent a triumph over British despots, after such torrentsof blood and treasure have been spent, after involving ourselves inthe distress of an arduous war, and incurring such a debt for the express purpose of asserting the rights of humanity; it is truly astonishing that a set of men among ourselves should have the effrontery toattempt the destruction of our liberties. But in this enlightened age tohope to dupe the people by the arts they are practicing is still moreextraordinary.How do the advocates of the proposed government combat theobjections urged against it? Not even by an attempt to disprove them,for that would the more fully confirm their truth: but by a species ofreasoning that is very congenial to that contempt of the understandings of the people that they so eminently possess, and which policy4cannot even prevent frequent ebullitions of. They seem to think thatthe oratory and fascination of great names and mere sound will suffice to ensure success; that the people may be diverted from a consideration of the merits of the plan by bold assertions and mere declamation. Some of their writers, for instance, paint the distress ofevery class of citizens with all the glowing language of eloquence, asif this was a demonstration of the excellence, or even the safety ofthe new plan, which, notwithstanding the reality of this distress, maybe a system of tyranny and oppression. Other writers tell you of thegreat men who composed the late Convention, and give you a pompous display of their virtues instead of a justification of the plan ofgovernment; and others again urge the tyrant's plea, they endeavor tomake it a case of necessity, now is the critical moment, they represent the adoption of this government as our only alternative, as thelast opportunity we shall have of peaceably establishing a government¹; they assert it to be the best system that can be formed, and thatif we reject it, we will have a worse one or none at all; nay, that if wepresume to propose alterations, we shall get into a labyrinth of difficulties from which we cannot be extricated, as no two states willagree in amendments; that therefore it would involve us in irreconcilable discord. But they all sedulously avoid the fair field of argument, a rational investigation into the origination of the proposedgovernment. I hope the good sense of the people will detect the fallacy of such conduct, will discover the base juggle, and with becoming resolution resent the imposition.That the powers of Congress ought to be strengthened, all allow:but is this a conclusive proof of the necessity to adopt the proposedplan? is it a proof that because the late convention, in the first essayupon so arduous and difficult a subject, harmonized in their ideas,that a future convention will not, or that after a full investigation andmature consideration of the objections, they will not plan a bettergovernment and one more agreeable to the sentiments of America, oris it any proof that they can never again agree in any plan? The lateconvention must indeed have been inspired, as some of its advocateshave asserted, to admit the truth of these positions, or even to admitthe possibility of the proposed government being such a one asAmerica ought to adopt; for this body went upon original ground,4foreign from their intentions or powers; they must therefore havebeen wholly uninformed of the sentiments of their constituents inrespect to this form of government, as it was not in their contemplation when the convention was appointed to erect a new government,but to strengthen the old one. Indeed, they seem to have been determined to monopolize the exclusive merit of the discovery, or ratheras if darkness was essential to its success they precluded all communication with the people, by closing their doors; thus the well-disposed members, unassisted by public information and opinion, wereinduced by those arts that are now practicing on the people, to givetheir sanction to this system of despotism.Is there any reason to presume that a new convention will notagree uponabetter plan of government? Quite the contrary, for perhaps there never was such a coincidence on any occasion as on thepresent. The opponents to the proposed plan at the same time in every part of the continent, harmonized in the same objections; such anuniformity of opposition is without example, and affords the strongest demonstration of its solidity. Their objections too are not local,are not confined to the interests of any one particular State to theprejudice of the rest, but with a philanthropy and liberality that reflects lustre on humanity, that dignifies the character of America,they embrace the interests and happiness of the whole Union. Theydo not even condescend to minute blemishes, but show that the mainpillars of the fabric are bad, that the essential principles of liberty andsafety are not to be found in it, that despotism will be the necessaryand inevitable consequence of its establishment.45.To the PEOPLE OF PENNSYLVANIA. Friends, Countrymen and FellowCitizens.Mr. Wilson in a speech delivered in our Convention on Saturdaythe 24th instant, has conceded, nay forcibly proved, that one consolidated government will not answer for so extensive a territory as theUnited States includes, that slavery would be the necessary fate ofthe people under such a government. His words are so remarkablethat I cannot forbear reciting them: they are as follows, viz., "Theextent of country for which the new constitution was required, produced another difficulty in the business of the federal convention. Itis the opinion of some celebrated writers, that to a small territory thedemocratical, to a middling territory (as Montesquieu has termed it)the monarchical, and to an extensive territory the despotic form ofgovernment is best adapted. Regarding then, the wide and almostunbounded jurisdiction of the United States, at first view, the hand ofdespotism seemed necessary to control, connect, and protect it; andhence the chief embarrassment rose. For, we knew that, although ourconstituents would cheerfully submit to the legislative restraints of afree government, they would spurn at every attempt to shackle themwith despotic power." See page 5 of the printed speech. And again inpage 7, he says "Is it probable that the dissolution, of the state governments, and the establishment of one consolidated empire, wouldbe eligible in its nature, and satisfactory to the people in its administration? I think not, as I have given reasons to show that so extensivea territory could not be governed, connected, and preserved, but bythe supremacy of despotic power. All the exertions of the most potent emperors of Rome were not capable of keeping that empire together, which, in extent, was far inferior to the dominion of America."This great point having been now confirmed by the concession ofMr. Wilson, though indeed it was self-evident before, and the writersagainst the proposed plan of government having proved to demonstration, that the powers proposed to be vested in Congress will necessarily annihilate and absorb the State Legislatures and judiciaries,and produce from their wreck one consolidated government, the question is determined. Every man therefore who has the welfare of hiscountry at heart, every man who values his own liberty and happiness, in short, every description of persons, except those aspiring46.NO. 5despots who hope to benefit by the misery and vassalage of theircountrymen, must now concur in rejecting the proposed system ofgovernment, must now unite in branding its authors with the stigmaof eternal infamy. The anniversary of this great escape from the fangsof despotism ought to be celebrated as long as liberty shall continueto be dear to the citizens of America.I will repeat some of my principal arguments, and add some further remarks on the subject of consolidation:The Legislature is the highest delegated power in government; allothers are subordinate to it. The celebrated Montesquieu establishedit as a maxim, that legislation necessarily follows the power of taxation. By the 8th sect. of article the ist, of the proposed government,"the Congress are to have power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defence and general welfare of the United States." Now what can bemore comprehensive than these words? Every species of taxation,whether external or internal, is included. Whatever taxes, duties, andexcises that the Congress may deem necessary to the general welfaremay be imposed on the citizens of these states, and levied by thetrofficers. The Congress are to be the absolute judges of the proprietyof such taxes; in short, they may construe every purpose for whichthe state legislatures now lay taxes, to be for the general welfare;they may seize upon every source of taxation, and thus make it impracticable for the states to have the smallest revenue, and if a stateshould presume to impose a tax or excise that would interfere with afederal tax or excise, Congress may soon terminate the contention byrepealing the state law, by virtue of the following section: "To makeall laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers and all other powers vested by this constitution in the government of the United States, or in any departmentthereof." Indeed, every law of the states may be controlled by thispower. The legislative power granted for these sections is so unlimited in its nature, may be so comprehensive and boundless in its exercise, that this alone would be amply sufficient to carry the coup degrace to the state governments, to swallow them up in the grand vortex of general empire. But the legislative has an able auxiliary in thejudicial department, for a reference to my second number will show4that this may be made greatly instrumental in effecting a consolidation; as the federal judiciary would absorb all others. Lest the foregoing powers should not suffice to consolidate the United States intoone empire, the Convention, as if determined to prevent the possibility of a doubt, as if to prevent all clashing by the opposition of statepowers, as if to preclude all struggle for state importance, as if tolevel all obstacles to the supremacy of universal sway, which in soextensive a territory would be an iron-handed despotism, have ordained by article the 6th, "That this constitution, and the laws of theUnited States, shall be the supreme law ofthe land; and the judges inevery state shall be bound thereby, anything in the constitution orlaws of any state to the contrary notwithstanding."The words "pursuant to the constitution" will be no restriction tothe authority of Congress; for the foregoing sections give them unlimited legislation; their unbounded power of taxation does aloneinclude all others, as whoever has the purse-strings will have fulldominion. But the convention has superadded another power, bywhich the Congress may stamp with the sanction of the constitutionevery possible law; it is contained in the following clause: "To makeall laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this constitution in the government of the United States, or in any departmentor officer thereof." Whatever law Congress may deem necessary andproper for carrying into execution any of the powers vested in themmay be enacted; and by virtue of this clause, they may control andabrogate any and every of the laws of the State governments, on theallegation that they interfere with the execution of any of their powers, and yet these laws will "be made in pursuance of the constitution," and of course will "be the supreme law of the land, and thejudges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything in the constitution or laws of any state to the contrary notwithstanding."There is no reservation made in the whole of this plan in favor ofthe rights of the separate States. In the present plan of confederation,made in the year 1778, it was thought necessary by article the 2d todeclare that "each State retains its sovereignty, freedom and independence, and every power, jurisdiction and right, which is not bythis confederation expressly delegated to the United States in Con4gress assembled." Positive grant was not then thought sufficientlydescriptive and restrictive upon Congress, and the omission of such adeclaration now, when such great devolutions of power are proposed,manifests the design of consolidating the States.What restriction does Mr. Wilson pretend there is in the new constitution to the supremacy of despotic sway over the United States?What barrier does he assign for the security of the State governments?Why truly, a mere cobweb of a limit! by interposing the shield ofwhat will become mere form, to check the reality of power. He says,that the existence of the State governments is essential to the organization of Congress, that the former is made the necessary basis of thelatter, for the federal senators and President are to be appointed bythe State legislatures; and that hence all fears of a consolidation aregroundless and imaginary. It must be confessed as reasons and argument would have been foreign to the defence of the proposed plan ofgovernment, Mr. Wilson has displayed much ingenuity on this occasion; he has involved the subject in all the mazes of sophistry, and bysubtil distinctions, he has established principles and positions, thatexist only in his own fertile imagination. It is a solecism in politicsfor two co-ordinate sovereignties to exist together; you must separate the sphere of their jurisdiction or after running the race of dominion for some time, one would necessarily triumph over the other,but in the meantime the subject of it would be harassed with doubleimpositions to support the contention; however, the strife betweenCongress and the States could not be of long continuance, for theformer has a decisive superiority in the outset, and has moreover thepower by the very constitution itself to terminate it when expedient.As this necessary connection, as it has been termed, between theState governments and the general government, has been madeapointof great magnitude by the advocates of the new plan, as it is the onlyobstacle alleged by them against a consolidation, it ought to be wellconsidered. It is declared by the proposed plan, that the federal senators and the electors who choose the President of the United States,shall be appointed by the State legislatures for the long period of sixand four years respectively; how will this connection prevent the Statelegislatures being divested of every important, every efficient power?may not they, will not they, dwindle into mere boards of appointment4as has ever happened in other nations to public bodies, who, in similar circumstances, have been so weak as to part with the essentials ofpower? Does not history abound with such instances? And this maybe the mighty amount of this inseparable connection which is so muchdwelt upon as the security of the State governments. Yet even thisshadow of a limit against consolidation may be annihilated by theimperial fiat without any violation of even the forms of the constitution. Article Ist, section 4th, has made a provision for this, when thepeople are sufficiently fatigued with the useless expense of maintaining the forms of departed power and security, and when they shallpray to be relieved from the imposition. This section cannot be toooften repeated, as it gives such a latitude to the designing, as it revokes every other part of the constitution that may be tolerable, andas it may enable the administration under it, to complete the systemof despotism; it is in the following words, viz: "The times, placesand manner of holding elections for senators and representatives shallbe prescribed in each State by the legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by law make or alter such regulations, exceptas to the place of choosing senators." The only apparent restrictionin this clause is as to the place of appointing senators, but even thismay be rendered of no avail, for as the Congress have the controlover the time of appointment of both senators and representatives,they may, under the pretence of an apprehension of invasion, uponthe pretence of the turbulence of what they may style a faction, andindeed pretences are never wanting to the designing, they may postpone the time of the election of the senators and the representativesfrom period to period to perpetuity; thus they may, and if they may,they certainly will, from the lust of dominion, so inherent in the mindof man, relieve the people from the trouble of attending elections bycondescending to create themselves. Has not Mr. Wilson avowed itin fact? Has he not said in the convention that it was necessary thatCongress should possess this power as the means of its own preservation? Otherwise, says he, an invasion, a civil war, a faction, or asecession of a minority of the assembly, might prevent the representation of a State in Congress.The advocates of the proposed government must be hard drivenwhen they represent that because the legislatures of this and the other5states have exceeded the due bounds of power, notwithstanding every guard provided by their constitutions; that because the lust ofarbitrary sway is so powerful as sometimes to get the better of everyobstacle; that therefore we should give full scope to it, for that allrestriction to it would be useless and nugatory. And further, whenthey tell you that a good administration will atone for all the defectsin the government, which, say they, you must necessarily have, forhow can it be otherwise? your rulers are to be taken from amongyourselves. My fellow citizens, these aspiring despots must indeedhave a great contempt for your understandings when they hope togull you out of your liberties by such reasoning; for what is the primary object of government, but to check and control the ambitiousand designing? how then can moderation and virtue be expected frommen who will be in possession of absolute sway, who will have theUnited States at their disposal? They would be more than men whocould resist such temptation! their being taken from among the peoplewould be no security; tyrants are of native growth in all countries,the greatest bashaw in Turkey has been one of the people, as Mr.Wilson tells you the president-general will be.What consolation wouldthis be when you shall be suffering under his oppression?To the PEOPLE OF PENNSYLVANIA."Man is the glory,jest, and riddle of the world."POPE.Incredible transition! the people who, seven years ago, deemedevery earthly good, every other consideration, as worthless, whenplaced in competition with liberty, that heaven-born blessing, thatzest of all others; the people, who, actuated by this noble ardor ofpatriotism, rose superior to every weakness of humanity, and shonewith such dazzling lustre amidst the greatest difficulties; who, emulousof eclipsing each other in the glorious assertion of the dignity of human nature, courted every danger, and were ever ready, when necessary, to lay down their lives at the altar of liberty: I say the people,who exhibited so lately a spectacle that commanded the admiration,and drew the plaudits of the most distant nations, are now reversingthe picture, are now lost to every noble principle, are about to sacrifice that inestimablejewel, liberty, to the genius of despotism. A goldenphantom held out to them by the crafty and aspiring despots amongthemselves, is alluring them into the fangs of arbitrary power; and sogreat is their infatuation, that it seems as if nothing short of the reality of misery necessarily attendant on slavery, will rouse them fromtheir false confidence, or convince them of the direful deceptionbut then alas! it will be too late, the chains of depotism will be fastriveted and all escape precluded.For years past, the harpies of power have been industriously inculcating the idea that all our difficulties proceed from the impotency of Congress, and have at length succeeded to give to this sentiment almost universal currency and belief: the devastations, lossesand burthens occasioned by the late war; the excessive importationsof foreign merchandise and luxuries, which have drained the countryof its specie and involved it in debt, are all overlooked, and the inadequacy of the powers of the present confederation is erroneously supposed to be the only cause of our difficulties; hence persons of everydescription are revelling in the anticipation of the halcyon days consequent on the establishment of the new constitution. What grossdeception and fatal delusion! Although very considerable benefitmight be derived from strengthening the hands of Congress, so as to5enable them to regulate commerce, and counteract the adverse restrictions of other nations, which would meet with the concurrenceof all persons; yet this benefit is accompanied in the new constitutionwith the scourge of despotic power, that will render the citizens ofAmerica tenants at will of every species of property, of every enjoyment, and make them the mere drudges of government. The gildedbait conceals corrosives that will eat up their whole substance.Since the late able discussion, all are now sensible of great defects in the new constitution, are sensible that power is thereby grantedwithout limitations or restriction; yet such is the impatience of thepeople to reap the golden harvest of regulated commerce, that theywill not take time to secure their liberty and happiness, nor even tosecure the benefit of the expected wealth; but are weakly trustingtheir every concern to the discretionary disposal of their future rulers: are content to risk every abuse of power, because they are promised a good administration, because moderation and self-denial arethe characteristic features of men in possession of absolute sway.What egregious folly! What superlative ignorance of the nature ofpower does such conduct discover.History exhibits this melancholy truth, that slavery has been thelot of nearly the whole of mankind in all ages, and that the very smallportion who have enjoyed the blessings of liberty, have soon beenreduced to the common level of slavery and misery. The cause of thisgeneral vassalage may be traced to a principle of human nature, whichis more powerful and operative than all the others combined; it isthat lust of dominion that is inherent in every mind, in a greater orless degree; this is so universal and ever active a passion as to influence all our ancestors; the different situation and qualifications ofmen only modifies and varies the complexion and operation of it.For this darling pre-eminence and superiority, the merchant, already possessed of a competency, adventures his all in the pursuit ofgreater wealth; it is for this that men of all descriptions, after havingamassed fortunes, still persevere in the toils of labor; in short, this isthe great principle of exertion in the votaries of riches, learning, and fame.In a savage state, pre-eminence is the result of bodily strengthand intrepidity, which compels submission from all such as have themisfortune to be less able; therefore the great end of civil govern5ment is to protect the weak from the oppression of the powerful, toput every man upon the level of equal liberty; but here again thesame lust of dominion by different means frustrates almost alwaysthis salutary intention. In a polished state of society, wealth, talents,address and intrigue are the qualities that attain superiority in thegreat sphere of government.The most striking illustration of the prevalence of this lust of dominion is, that the most strenuous assertors of liberty in all ages,after successfully triumphing over tyranny, have themselves becometyrants, when the unsuspicious confidence of an admiring people hasentrusted them with unchecked power. Rare are the instances of selfdenial, or consistency of conduct in the votaries of liberty when theyhave become possessed of the reins of authority; it has been the peculiar felicity of this country, that her great Deliverer did not prove aCromwell nor a Monk.Compare the declarations of the most zealous assertors of religious liberty,whilst under the lash of persecution, with their conductwhen in power; you will find that even the benevolence and humilityinculcated in the gospels, prove no restraint upon this love of domination. The mutual contentions of the several sects of religion in England some ages since, are sufficient evidence of this truth.The annals of mankind demonstrate the precarious tenure of privileges and property dependent upon the will and pleasure of rulers;these illustrate the fatal danger of relying upon the moderation andself-denial of men exposed to the temptations that the Congress under the new constitution will be. The lust of power or dominion is ofthat nature as seeks to overcome every obstacle, and does not remitits exertions whilst any object of conquest remains; nothing short ofthe plenitude of dominion will satisfy this cursed demon. Therefore,liberty is only to be preserved by a due responsibility in the government, and by the constant attention of the people; whenever that responsibility has been lessened or this attention remitted, in the samedegree has arbitrary sway prevailed.The celebrated Montesquieu has warned mankind of the dangerof an implicit reliance on rulers; he says that "a perpetual jealousyrespecting liberty, is absolutely requisite in all free states," and again,"that slavery is ever preceded by sleep."5I shall conclude this number with an extract from a speech delivered by Lord George Digby, afterwards Earl of Bristol, in the English Parliament, on the triennial bill in the year 1641, viz: "It hathbeen a maxim among the wisest legislators that whoever means tosettle good laws must proceed in them with a sinister opinion of allmankind; and suppose that whoever is not wicked, it is for want onlyof the opportunity. It is that opportunity of being ill, Mr. Speaker,that we must take away, if ever we mean to be happy, which cannever be done but by the frequency of parliament."No State can wisely be confident of any public minister's continuing good, longer than the rod is held over him."Let me appeal to all those that were present in this house at theagitation of the petition of right. And let them tell themselves truly ofwhose promotion to the management of public affairs do they thinkthe generality would, at that time, have had better hopes than of Mr.Noy and Sir Thomas Wentworth; both having been at that time and inthat business, as I have heard, most keen and active patriots, and thelatter of them, to the eternal aggravation of his infamous treachery tothe commonwealth be it spoken, the first mover and insisted to havethis clause added to the petition of right, viz:"That for the comfort and safety of his subjects his Majesty wouldbe pleased to declare his will and pleasure, that all his ministers shouldserve him according to the laws and statutes of the realm."And yet, Mr. Speaker, to whom now can all the inundations uponour liberties, under pretence of law, and the late shipwreck at once ofall our property, be attributed more than to Noy, and all those othermischiefs whereby this monarchy hath been brought almost to thebrink of destruction so much to any as to that grand apostate to thecommonwealth, the new Lieutenant of Ireland, Sir ThomasWentworth? Let every man but consider those men as once theywere."-British Liberties, pages 184 and 185.To the PEOPLE OF PENNSYLVANIA. Fellow Citizens.Under the benign influence of liberty, this country, so recently arugged wilderness and the abode of savages and wild beasts, has attained to a degree of improvement and greatness, in less than twoages, of which history furnishes no parallel. It is here that humannature may be viewed in all its glory; man ássumes the station designed him by the creation, a happy equality and independency pervades the community, it is here the human mind, untrammeled by therestraints of arbitrary power, expands every faculty: as the field tofame and riches is open to all, it stimulates universal exertion, andexhibits a lively picture of emulation, industry and happiness. Theunfortunate and oppressed of all nations, fly to this grand asylum,where liberty is ever protected, and industry crowned with success.But as it is by comparison only that men estimate the value of anygood, they are not sensible of the worth of those blessings they enjoy,until they are deprived of them; hence from ignorance of the horrorsof slavery, nations, that have been in possession of that rarest of blessings, liberty, have so easily parted with it: when groaning under theyoke of tyranny what perils would they not encounter, what consideration would they not give to regain the inestimable jewel they hadlost; but the jealousy of despotism guards every avenue to freedom,and confirms its empire at the expense of the devoted people, whoseproperty is made instrumental to their misery, for the rapacious handof power seizes upon every thing; despair presently succeeds, andevery noble faculty of the mind being depressed, and all motive toindustry and exertion being removed, the people are adapted to thenature of the government, and drag out a listless existence.If ever America should be enslaved it will be from this cause, thatthey are not sensible of their peculiar felicity, that they are not awareof the value of the heavenly boon, committed to their care and protection, and if the present conspiracy fails, as I have no doubt will bethe case, it will be the triumph of reason and philosophy, as theseUnited States have never felt the iron hand of power, nor experienced the wretchedness of slavery.The conspirators against our liberties have presumed too muchon the maxim that nations do not take the alarm, until they feel орpression; the enlightened citizens of America have on two memo5rable occasions convinced the tyrants of Europe that they are enduedwith the faculty of foresight, that they will jealously guard against the first introduction of tyranny, however speciously glossed over, or whatever appearance it may assume. It was not the mere amount of the duty on stamps, or tea that America opposed, they were consid- ered as signals of approaching despotism, as precedents whereon the superstructure of arbitrary sway was to be reared. Notwithstanding such illustrious evidence of the good sense and spirit of the people of these United States, and contrary to all former experience of mankind, which demonstrates that it is only by gradual and imperceptible degrees that nations have hitherto been enslaved, except in case of conquest by the sword, the authors of the present conspiracy are attempting to seize upon absolute power at one grasp; impatient of dominion they have adopted a decisive line of conduct, which, if successful, would obliterate every trace of liberty. I con- gratulate my fellow citizens that the infatuated confidence of their enemies has so blinded their ambition that their defeat must be certain and easy, if imitating the refined policy of successful despots, they had attacked the citadel of liberty by sap, and gradually under- mined its outworks, they would have stood a fairer chance of effect- ing their design; but in this enlightened age thus rashly to attempt to carry the fortress by storm, is folly indeed. They have even exposedsome of their batteries prematurely, and thereby unfolded every la- tent view, for the unlimited power of taxation would alone have been amply sufficient for every purpose; by a proper application of this, the will and pleasure of the rulers would of course have become the supreme law of the land; therefore there was no use in portraying the ultimate object by superadding the form to reality of supremacy in the following clause, viz: That which empowers the new Congress to make all laws that may be necessary and proper for carrying into execution any of their powers, by virtue of which every possible law will be constitutional, as they are to be the sole judges of the propri- ety of such laws, that which ordains that their acts shall be the su- preme law of the land, anything in the laws or constitution of any State to the contrary notwithstanding; that which gives Congress the absolute control over time and mode of its appointment and election, whereby, independent of any other means, they may establish he5reditary despotism; that which authorizes them to keep on foot at alltimes a standing army; and that which subjects the militia to absolutecommand, and to accelerate the subjugation of the people, trial byjury in civil cases and the liberty of the press are abolished.So flagrant, so audacious a conspiracy against the liberties of afree people is without precedent. Mankind in the darkest ages havenever been so insulted; even then, tyrants found it necessary to paysome respect to the habits and feelings of the people, and nothing butthe name of a Washington could have occasioned a moment's hesitation about the nature of the new plan, or saved its authors from theexecration and vengeance of the people, which eventually will provean aggravation of their treason; for America will resent the imposition practiced upon the unsuspicious zeal of her illustrious deliverer,and vindicate her character from the aspersions of these enemies ofher happiness and fame.The advocates of this plan have artfully attempted to veil over thetrue nature and principles of it with the names of those respectablecharacters that by consummate cunning and address they have prevailed upon to sign it, and what ought to convince the people of thedeception and excite their apprehensions, is that with every advantage which education, the science of government and of law, theknowledge of history and superior talents and endowments, furnishthe authors and advocates of this plan with, they have from its publication exerted all their power and influence to prevent all discussionof the subject, and when this could not be prevented they have constantly avoided the ground of argument and recurred to declamation,sophistry and personal abuse, but principally relied upon the magicof names. Would this have been their conduct, iftheir cause had beena good one? No, they would have invited investigation and convincedthe understandings of the people.But such policy indicates great ignorance of the good sense andspirit of the people, for if the sanction of every convention throughout the union was obtained by the means these men are practising;yet their triumph would be momentary, the favorite object would stillelude their grasp; for a good government founded on fraud and deception could not be maintained without an army sufficiently powerful to compel submission, which the well-born of America could not6speedily accomplish. However the complexion of several of the more considerable States does not promise even this point of success. The Carolinas, Virginia, Maryland, New York and New Hampshire have by their wisdom in taking a longer time to deliberate, in all probabil- ity saved themselves from the disgrace of becoming the dupes of this gilded bait, as experience will evince that it need only be properly examined to be execrated and repulsed.The merchant, immersed in schemes of wealth, seldom extends his views beyond the immediate object of gain; he blindly pursues his seeming interest, and sees not the latent mischief; therefore it is, that he is the last to take the alarm when public liberty is threatened. This may account for the infatuation of some of our merchants, who, elated with the imaginary prospect of an improved commerce under the new government, overlook all danger: they do not consider thatcommerce is the hand-maid of liberty, a plant of free growth that withers under the hand of despotism, that every concern of individu- als will be sacrificed to the gratification of the men in power, who will institute injurious monopolies and shackle commerce with ev- ery device of avarice; and that property of every species will be held at the will and pleasure of rulers.If the nature of the case did not give birth to these well founded apprehensions, the principles and characters of the authors and advo- cates ofthe measure ought. View the monopolizing spirit of the prin- cipal of them. See him converting a bank, instituted for common benefit, to his own and creatures' emoluments, and by the aid thereof, controlling the credit of the state, and dictating the measures of gov- ernment. View the vassalage of our merchants, the thraldom of the city of Philadelphia, and the extinction of that spirit of independency in most of its citizens so essential to freedom. View this Collosus attempting to grasp the commerce of America and meeting with asudden repulse—in the midst of his immense career, receiving a shock that threatens his very existence. View the desperate fortunes of many of his coadjutors and defendants, particularly the bankrupt situation ofthe principal instrument under the great man in promoting the new government, whose superlative arrogance, ambition and rapacity, would need the spoils of thousands to gratify; view his towering as- pect-he would have no bowels of compassion for the oppressed, he6would overlook all their sufferings. Recollect the strenuous and unremitted exertions of these men, for years past, to destroy our admirable Constitution, whose object is to secure equal liberty and advantages to all, and the great obstacle in the way of their ambitiousschemes, and then answer whether these apprehensions are chimerical, whether such characters will be less avaricious, more moderate,when the privileges, property, and every concern of the people of theUnited States shall lie at their mercy, when they shall be in possession of absolute sway?To the PEOPLE OF PENNSYLVANIA. Fellow Citizens,You have the peculiar felicity of living under the most perfectsystem of local government in the world; prize then this invaluableblessing as it deserves. Suffer it not to be wrested from you, and thescourge of despotic power substituted in its place, under the speciouspretence of vesting the general government of the United States withnecessary power; that this would be the inevitable consequence ofthe establishment of the new constitution, the least consideration ofits nature and tendency is sufficient to convince every unprejudicedmind. If you were sufficiently impressed with your present favoredsituation, I should have no doubt of a proper decision of the questionin discussion.The highest illustration of the excellence of the constitution ofthis commonwealth, is, that from its first establishment, the ambitious and profligate have been united in a constant conspiracy to destroy it; so sensible are they that it is their great enemy, that it is thegreat palladium of equal liberty, and the property of the people fromthe rapacious hand of power. The annals of mankind do not furnish amore glorious instance of the triumph of patriotism over the lust ofambition aided by most of the wealth of the State. The few generallyprevail over the many by uniformity of council, unremitted and persevering exertion, and superior information and address; but in Pennsylvania the reverse has happened; here the well-born have beenbaffled in all their efforts to prostrate the altar of liberty for the purpose of substituting their own insolent sway that would degrade thefreemen of this State into servile dependence upon the lordly andgreat. However it is not the nature of ambition to be discouraged; itis ever ready to improve the first opportunity to rear its baneful headand with irritated fury to wreak its vengeance on the votaries of liberty. The present conspiracy is a continental exertion of the wellborn of America to obtain that darling domination, which they havenot been able to accomplish in their respective States. Of what complexion were the deputies of this State in the general convention? Sixout of eight were the inveterate enemies of our inestimable constitution, and the principals of that faction that for ten years past havekept the people in continual alarm for their liberties.! Who are theadvocates of the new constitution in this State? They consist of the6To the PEOPLE OF PENNSYLVANIA. Fellow Citizens.The arguments upon which the advocates of the new constitutionthe most dwell, are the distresses of the community, the evils of anarchy, and the horrible consequences that would ensue from the dissolution of the union of the States, and the institution of separate confederacies or republics: The unanimity of the federal convention, andthe sanction of great names, can be no further urged as an argumentafter the exposition made by the attorney-general of Maryland, whowas a member of that convention; he has opened such a scene ofdiscord and accommodation of republicanism to despotism as mustexcite the most serious apprehensions in every patriotic mind.¹ Thefirst argument has been noticed in the preceding essays; wherein it isshown that this is not the criterion whereby to determine the meritsof the new constitution; that notwithstanding the reality of the distresses of the people, the new constitution may not only be inadequate as a remedy, but destructive of liberty, and the completion ofmisery. The remaining two arguments will be discussed in this number; their futility elucidated; and thus the medium of deception beingdissipated, the public attention, with undirected, undiminished force,will be directed to the proper object, will be confined to the consideration of the nature and construction of the plan of government itself,the question will then be, whether this plan be calculated for ourwelfare, or misery; whether it is the temple of liberty, or the structureof despotism? and as the former, or the latter, shall appear to be thecase, to adopt or reject it accordingly, otherwise to banish the demonof domination by suitable amendments and qualifications.The evils of anarchy have been portrayed with all the imagery oflanguage in the glowing colors of eloquence; the affrighted mind isthence led to clasp the new Constitution as the instrument of deliverance, as the only avenue to safety and happiness. To avoid the possible and transitory evils of one extreme, it is seduced into the certainand permanent misery necessarily attendant on the other. A state ofanarchy from its very nature can never be of long continuance; thegreater its violence the shorter the duration; order and security areimmediately sought by the distracted people beneath the shelter ofequal laws and the salutary restraints of regular government, and ifthis be not attainable absolute power is assumed by the one, or a few,who shall be the most enterprising and successful. If anarchy, there7fore, were the inevitable consequence of rejecting the new Constitution, it would be infinitely better to incur it, for even then there wouldbe at least the chance of a good government rising out of licentiousness; but to rush at once into despotism because there is a bare possi- bility of anarchy ensuing from the rejection, or from what is yet morevisionary, the small delay that would be occasioned by a revision andcorrection of the proposed system of government is so superlativelyweak, so fatally blind, that it is astonishing any person of common understanding should suffer such an imposition to have the least influence on his judgment; still more astonishing that so flimsy and deceptive a doctrine should make converts among the enlightenedfreemen of America, who have so long enjoyed the blessings of lib- erty; but when I view among such converts men otherwise pre-eminent it raises a blush for the weakness of humanity; that these, her brightest ornaments, should be so dimsighted to what is self-evidentto most men, that such imbecility of judgment should appear whereso much perfection was looked for; this ought to teach us to dependmore on our own judgment and the nature of the case than upon the opinion of the greatest and best of men, who, from constitutionalinfirmities or particular situations, may sometimes view an object through a delusive medium, but the opinions of great men are morefrequently the dictates of ambition or private interest.The source of the apprehensions of this so much dreaded anarchywould upon investigation be found to arise from the artful suggestions of designing men, and not from a rational probability grounded on the actual state of affairs; the least reflection is sufficient to detectthe fallacy to show that there is no one circumstance to justify the prediction of such an event. On the contrary a short time will evince,to the utter dismay and confusion of the conspirators, that a perseverance in cramming down their scheme of power upon the freemen of this State will inevitably produce an anarchy destructive of their dar- ling domination, and may kindle a flame prejudicial to their safety; they should be cautious not to trespass too far on the forbearance offreemen when wresting their dearest concerns, but prudently retreatfrom the gathering storm.The other specter that has been raised to terrify and alarm thepeople out of the exercise of their judgment on this great occasion, isthe dread of our splitting into separate confederacies or republics,7that might become rival powers and consequently liable to mutualwars from the usual motives of contention. This is an event still moreimprobable than the foregoing; it is a presumption unwarranted, either by the situation of affairs, or the sentiments of the people; nodisposition leading to it exists; the advocates of the new constitutionseem to view such a separation with horror, and its opponents arestrenuously contending for a confederation that shall embrace allAmerica under its comprehensive and salutary protection. This hobgoblin appears to have sprung from the deranged brain of Publius,2 aNew York writer, who, mistaking sound for argument, has withHerculean labor accumulated myriads of unmeaning sentences, andmechanically endeavored to force conviction by a torrent of misplaced words; he might have spared his readers the fatigue of wadingthrough his long-winded disquisitions on the direful effects of thecontentions of inimical states, as totally inapplicable to the subjecthe was professedly treating; this writer has devoted much time, andwasted more paper in combating chimeras of his own creation. However, for the sake of argument, I will admit that the necessary consequence of rejecting or delaying the establishment of the new constitution, would be the dissolution of the union, and the institution ofeven rival and inimical republics; yet ought such an apprehension, ifwell grounded, to drive us into the fangs of despotism? Infinitelypreferable would be occasional wars to such an event; the former,although a severe scourge, is transient in its continuance, and in itsoperation partial, but a small proportion of the community are exposed to its greatest horrors, and yet fewer experience its greatestevils; the latter is permanent and universal misery, without remissionor exemption: as passing clouds obscure for a time the splendor ofthe sun, so do wars interrupt the welfare of mankind; but despotismis a settled gloom that totally extinguishes happiness, not a ray ofcomfort can penetrate to cheer the dejected mind; the goad of powerwith unabating rigor insists upon the utmost exaction, like a merciless taskmaster, is continually inflicting the lash, and is never satiated with the feast of unfeeling domination, or the most abject servility.The celebrated Lord Kaims,3 whose disquisitions on human nature evidence extraordinary strength of judgment and depth of inves7tigation, says that a continual civil war, which is the most destructiveand horrible scene of human discord, is preferable to the uniformityof wretchedness and misery attendant upon despotism; of all pos- sible evils, as I observed in my first number, this is the worst and themost to be dreaded.I congratulate my fellow citizens that a good government, thegreatest earthly blessing, may be so easily obtained, that our circumstances are so favorable, that nothing but the folly of the conspiratorscan produce anarchy or civil war, which would presently terminatein their destruction and the permanent harmony of the state, alone interrupted by their ambitious machinations.In a former number I stated a charge of a very heinous nature, and highly prejudicial to the public welfare, and at this great crisis peculiarly alarming and threatening to liberty. I mean the suppression ofthe circulation of the newspapers from State to State by the of-c--rsof the P-t O-ce, who in violation of their duty and integrity, haveprostituted their of-ces to forward the nefarious design of enslavingtheir countrymen, by thus cutting off all communication by the usual vehicle between the patriots of America; I find that notwithstandingthat public appeal, they persevere in this villainous and daring prac- tice. The newspapers of the other States that contain any useful information are still withheld from the printers of this State, and I see bythe annunciation of the editor of Mr. Greenfeaf's patriotic New Yorkpaper, that the printers of that place are still treated in like manner.This informs his readers that but two southern papers have come tohand, and that they contain no information, which he affects to ascribe to the negligence of the p-t boy, not caring to quarrel with thep-t m-t-r g-l.
