PETER COFFIN ESQ; in the Chair.The Constitution and form of Government framed by the Conventio.of this State, was read paragraph by paragraph, and after debate, th following votes were passed.1. That the present situation of this State renders it best, that thframing of a Constitution therefor, should be postponed 'till the publaffairs are in a more peaceable and settled condition.2. That a bill of rights, clearly ascertaining and defining the rightsconscience, and that security of person and property, which every merber in the State hath a right to expect from the supreme power thereought to be settled and established, previous to the ratification of arconstitution for the State.3. That the executive power in any State, ought not to have any shaior voice in the legislative power in framing the laws, and therefore, ththe second article of the Constitution is liable to exception.4. That any man who is chosen Governor, ought to be properly qualfied in point of property-that the qualification therefor, mentioned ithe third article of the Constitution, is not sufficient-nor is the san3241778 325 qualification directed to be ascertained on fixed principles, as it oughto be, on account of the fluctuation of the nominal value of money, andf property.5. That in every free Republican Government, where the legislativeower is rested in an house or houses of representatives, all the membersI the State ought to be equally represented.6. That the mode of representation proposed in the sixth article of theonstitution, is not so equal a representation as can reasonably be devised.7. That therefore the mode of representation in said sixth article isxceptionable.8. That the representation proposed in said article is also exceptionable,s it will produce an unwieldy assembly.9. That the mode of election of Senators pointed out in the Constituion is exceptionable.10. That the rights of conscience, and the security of person and propty each member of the State is entitled to, are not ascertained and dened in the Constitution, with a precision sufficient to limit the legislative wer-and therefore, that the thirteenth article of the constitutionceptionable.isII. That the fifteenth article is exceptionable, because the numbers that institutea quorum in the House of Representatives and Senate, areo small. 12. That the seventeenth article of the constitution is exceptionable, cause the supreme executive officer is not vested with proper authority and because an independence between the executive and legislativedy is not preserved.3. That the nineteenth article is exceptionable, because a due inde- ndence is not kept up between the supreme legislative, judicial, and ecutive powers, nor between any two of them.14. That the twentieth article is exceptionable, because the supreme cutive officer hath a voice, and must be present in that Court, which ne hath authority to try impeachments.5. That the twenty second article is exceptionable, because the su- eme executive power is not preserved distinct from, and independent the supreme legislative power.16. That the twenty third article is exceptionable, because the power granting pardons is not solely vested in the supreme executive power the State.17. That the twenty eighth article is exceptionable, because the deleHow2B B8日AE326 22. The Essex Resultof gates for the Continental Congress may be elected by the HouseRepresentatives, when all the Senators may vote against the election ofthose who are delegated.18. That the thirty fourth article is exceptionable, because the rights ofconscience are not therein clearly defined and ascertained; and further,because the free exercise and enjoyment of religious worship is there saidto be allowed to all the protestants in the State, when in fact, that freeexercise and enjoyment is the natural and uncontroulable right of everymember of the State.A committee was then appointed to attempt the ascertaining of thetrue principles of government, applicable to the territory of the Massachusetts-Bay; to state the non-conformity of the constitution proposed bythe Convention of this State to those principles, and to delineate the general outlines of a constitution conformable thereto; and to report thesame to this Body.This Convention was then adjourned to the twelfth day of May nextto be holden at Ipswich.The Convention met pursuant to adjournment, and their committeepresented the following report.The committee appointed by this Convention at their last adjournmenthave proceeded upon the service assigned them. With difidence havthey undertaken the several parts of their duty, and the manner in whiclthey have executed them, they submit to the candor of this Body. Wherthey considered of what vast consequence, the forming of a Constitutiois to the members of this State, the length of time that is necessary tcanvass and digest any proposed plan of government, before the estatlishment of it, and the consummate coolness, and solemn deliberatiowhich should attend, not only those gentlemen who have, reposed ithem, the important trust of delineating the several lines in which thvarious powers of government are to move, but also all those, who are 1form an opinion of the execution of that trust, your committee must hexcused when they express a surprise and regret, that so short a timeallowed the freemen inhabiting the territory of the Massachusetts-Bato revise and comprehend the form of government proposed to them bthe convention of this State, to compare it with those principles on whicevery free government ought to be founded, and to ascertain it's colformity or non-conformity thereto. All this is necessary to be done, bfore a true opinion of it's merit or demerit can be formed. This opinic1778 327is to be certified within a time which, in our apprehension, is much tooshort for this purpose, and to be certified by a people, who, during thattime, have had and will have their minds perplexed and oppressed witha variety of public cares. The committee also beg leave to observe, thatthe constitution proposed for public approbation, was formed by gentle- nen, who, at the same time, had a large share in conducting an imporant war, and who were employed in carrying into execution almostlI the various powers of government. The committee however proceeded in attempting the task assignedhem, and the success of that attempt is now reported.The reason and understanding of mankind, as well as the experiencef all ages, confirm the truth of this proposition, that the benefits resultng to individuals from a free government, conduce much more to their appiness, than the retaining of all their natural rights in a state ofature. These benefits are greater or less, as the form of government, andhe mode of exercising the supreme power of the State, are more or lessnformable to those principles of equal impartial liberty, which is theoperty of all men from their birth as the gift of their Creator, comred with the manners and genius of the people, their occupations, stoms, modes of thinking, situation, extent of country, and numbers.the constitution and form of government are wholly repugnant to ose principles, wretched are the subjects of that State. They have suradered a portion of their natural rights, the enjoyment of which wassome degree a blessing, and the consequence is, they find themselvesipped of the remainder. As an anodyne to compose the spirits of theseIves, and to lull them into a passively obedient state, they are told, thatanny is preferable to no government at all; a proposition which is to doubted, unless considered under some limitation. Surely a state ofture is more excellent than that, in which men are meanly submissive the haughty will of an imperious tyrant, whose savage passions are notinded by the laws of reason, religion, honor, ora regard to his subts, and the point to which all his movements center, is the gratificationa brutal appetite. As in a state of nature much happiness cannot beoyed by individuals, so it has been conformable to the inclinations ofnost all men, to enter into a political society so constituted, as to reve the inconveniences they were obliged to submit to in their formerneirCovasoneou1ntioneht claktest qul cticom or tretsterS1Oandandpenpreeriinnieva, cardeimthe forjustoneimito onlre aof thetheport and of gtnow lateto2328 22. The Essex Result state, and, at the same time, to retain all those natural rights, the enjo ment of which would be consistent with the nature of a free governmerand the necessary subordination to the supreme power of the state. To determine what form of government, in any given case, will prduce the greatest possible happiness to the subject, is an arduous task, n.to be compassed perhaps by any human powers. Some of the great geniuses and most learned philosophers of all ages, impelled by the sollicitude to promote the happiness of mankind, have nobly daredattempt it: and their labours have crowned them with immortality. Solon, a Lycurgus of Greece,a Numa of Rome are remembered wil honor, when the wide extended empires of succeeding tyrants, are hard important enough to be faintly sketched out on the map, while th superb thrones have long since crumbled into dust. The man who alo: undertakes to form a constitution, ought to be an unimpassioned beirone enlightened mind; biassed neither by the lust of power, the allu ments of pleasure, nor the glitter of wealth; perfectly acquainted w.:all the alienable and unalienable rights of mankind; possessed of tgrand truth, that all men are born equally free, and that no man oug!to surrender any part of his natural rights, without receiving the great possible equivalent; and influenced by the impartial principles of rec:tude and justice, without partiality for, or prejudice against the interest professions of any individuals or class of men. He ought also to be masi:of the histories of all the empires and states which are now existing,all those which have figured in antiquity, and thereby able to collect 2:blend their respective excellencies, and avoid those defects which exp: ence hath pointed out. Rousseau,a learned foreigner,a citizen of Gen sensible of the importance and difficulty of the subject, thought it i possible for any body of people, to form a free and equal constitution themselves, in which, every individual should have equal justice dhim, and be permitted to enjoy a share of power in the state, equal what should be enjoyed by any other. Each individual, said he, w struggle, not only to retain all his own natural rights, but to acquir controul over those of others. Fraud, circumvention, and an union interest of some classes of people, combined with an inattention torights of posterity, will prevail over the principles of equity, justice,1: good policy. The Genevans, perhaps the most virtuous republicans 1 existing, thought like Rousseau. They called the celebrated Calvir1778 329 heir assistance. He came, and, by their gratitude, have they embalmedts memory. The freemen inhabiting the territory of the Massachusetts-Bay are now orming a political society for themselves. Perhaps their situation is more avorable in some respects, for erecting a free government, than any her people were ever favored with. That attachment to old forms, hich usually embarrasses, has not place amongst them. They have theistory and experience of all States before them. Mankind have been lng through ages for their information; and the philosophers andarned men of antiquity have trimmed their midnight lamps, to transmit them instruction. We live also in an age, when the principles of po- ical liberty, and the foundation of governments, have been freely canssed, and fairly settled. Yet some difficulties we have to encounter. Not ontent with removing our attachment to the old government, perhapse have contracted aа prejudice against some part of it without foundaon. The idea of liberty has been held up in so dazzling colours, thatme of us may not be willing to submit to that subordination necessarythe freest States. Perhaps we may say further, that we do not consider1 rselves united as brothers, with an united interest, but have fanciedashing of interests amongst the various classes of men, and have acired a thirst of power, and a wish of domination, over some of the :mmunity. We are contending for freedomLet us all be equally eIt is possible, and it is just. Our interests when candidly conlered are one. Let us have a constitution founded, not upon party or judice-not one for to-day or to-morrow-but for posterity. Let Estopetua be it's motto. If it is founded in good policy; it will be foundedj stice and honesty. Let all ambitious and interested views be dis3: 1, and let regard be had only to the good of the whole, in which1: situation and rights of posterity must be considered: and let equaltice be done to all the members of the community; and we thereby) itate our common father, who at our births, dispersed his favors, noty with a liberal, but with an equal hand.Was it asked, what is the best form of government for the people of1 Massachusetts-Bay? we confess it would be a question of infinite im- tance: and the man who could truly answer it, would merit a statue Igold to his memory, and his fame would be recorded in the annals of posterity, with unrivalled lustre. The question, however, must bed P요영to330 22. The Essex Result answered, and let it have the best answer we can possibly give it. Was a man to mentiona despotic government, his life would be a just forfeilthe resentments of an affronted people. Was he to hint monarchy, he would deservedly be hissed off the stage, and consigned to infamy.A republican form is the only one consonant to the feelings of the generouand brave Americans. Let us now attend to those principles, upon whichall republican governments, who boast any degree of political liberty, are founded, and which must enter into the spirit of a FREE republican con stitution. For all republics are not FREE.All men are born equally free. The rights they possess at their birth:are equal, and of the same kind. Some of those rights are alienable, anemay be parted with for an equivalent. Others are unalienable and inherent, and of that importance, that no equivalent can be received inexchange. Sometimes we shall mention the surrendering of a power tcontroul our natural rights, which perhaps is speaking with more precision, than when we use the expression of parting with natural rightsbut the same thing is intended. Those rights which are unalienable, anof that importance, are called the rights of conscience. We have dutiesfor the discharge of which we are accountable to our Creator and benefactor, which no human power can cancel. What those duties are, i: determinable by right reason, which may be, and is called, a well in formed conscience. What this conscience dictates as our duty, is so; ane that power which assumesa controul over it, is an usurper; for no cor sent can be pleaded to justify the controul, as any consent in this case i:void. The alienation of some rights, in themselves alienable, may be alsvoid, if the bargain is of that nature, that no equivalent can be received.Thus, if a man surrender all his alienable rights, without reserving controul over the supreme power, or a right to resume in certain cases the surrender is void, for he becomes a slave; and a slave can receiven equivalent. Common equity would set aside this bargain. When men form themselves into society, and erect a body politic cState, they are to be considered as one moral whole, which is in possessio.:of the supreme power of the State. This supreme power is composedthe powers of each individual collected together, and vOLUNTARILY partewith by him. No individual, in this case, parts with his unalienable rights the supreme power therefore cannot controul them. Each individual als surrenders the power of controuling his natural alienable rights, ONLA1778 331 WHEN THE GOOD OF THE WHOLE REQUIRES it. The supreme power thereforecan do nothing but what is for the good of the whole; and when it goesbeyond this line, it is a power usurped. If the individual receives anequivalent for the right of controul he has parted with, the surrender ofhat-right is valid; if he receives no equivalent, the surrender is void, andthe supreme power as it respects him is an usurper. If the supreme poweris so directed and executed that he does not enjoy political liberty, it is an illegal power, and he is not bound to obey. Political liberty is by somedefined, a liberty of doing whatever is not prohibited by law. The definifion is erroneous.A tyrant may govern by laws. The republic's of Venice and Holland govern by laws, yet those republic's have degenerated intoEnsupportable tyrannies. Let it be thus defined; political liberty is the 7right every man in the state has, to do whatever is not prohibited byTaws, TO WHICH HE HAS GIVEN HIS CONSENT. This definition is in unisonith the feelings of a free people. But to return-If a fundamental prin.ciple on which each individual enters into society 1s, that he shall be Tound by no laws but those to which he has consented, he cannot be considered as consenting to any law enacted by a minority: for he partsith the power of controuling his natural rights, only when the good of the whole requires it; and of this there can be but one absolute judge inthe State. If the minority can assume the right of judging, there may thente two judges; for however large the minority may be, there must be anther body still larger, who have the same claim, if not a better, to theright of absolute determination. If therefore the supreme power shouldso modelled and exerted, that a law may be enacted by a minority, theinforcing of that law upon an individual who is opposed to it, is an acttyranny. Further, as every individual, in entering into the society,rted with a power of controuling his natural rights equal to that partedwith by any other, or in other words, as all the members of the society centributed an equal portion of their natural rights, towards the forming the supreme power, so every member ought to receive equal benefitom, have equal influence in forming, and retain an equal controul over, the supreme power.It has been observed, that each individual parts with the power of conttwuling his natural alienable rights, only when the good of the whole1e quires it, he therefore has remaining, after entering into political soiety, all his unalienable natural rights, and a part also of his alienable1n tural rights, provided the good of the whole does not require the sacrianqhisblettunCoUamS B B 아B S B神 همL332 22. The Essex Resultfice of them. Over the class of unalienable rights the supreme power hathno controul, and they ought to be clearly defined and ascertained in aBILL OF RIGHTS, previous to the ratification of any constitution. The:bill of rights should also contain the equivalent every man receives, asa consideration for the rights he has surrendered. This equivalent consists principally in the security of his person and property, and is also unassailable by the supreme power. for if the equivalent is taken back, thosenatural rights which were parted with to purchase it, return to the orig.inal proprietor, as nothing is more true, than that ALLEGIANCE AND PROTECTION ARE RECIPROCAL.The committee also proceeded to consider upon what principles, andin what manner, the supreme power of the state thus composed of thepowers of the several individuals thereof, may be formed, modelled, andexerted in a republic, so that every member of the state may enjoy political liberty. This is called by some, the ascertaining of the political lawof the state. Let it now be called the forming ofa constitution.The reason why the supreme governor of the world is a rightful andjust governor, and entitled to the allegiance of the universe is, because :is infinitely good, wise, and powerful. His goodness prompts him to thbest measures, his wisdom qualifies him to discern them, and his powel to effect them. In a state likewise, the supreme power is best disposed of when it is so modelled and balanced, and rested in such hands, that it has the greatest share of goodness, wisdom, and power, which is consistenwith the lot of humanity.That state, (other things being equal) which has reposed the suprempower in the hands of one ora small number of persons, is the mo powerful state. An union, expedition, secrecy and dispatch are to tfound only here. Where power is to be executed bya large number, thewill not probably be either of the requisites just mentioned. Many merhave various opinions: and each one will be tenacious of his own, as tthinks it preferable to any other; for when he thinks otherwise, it wil cease to be his opinion. From this diversity of opinions results disunion from disunion,a want of expedition and dispatch. And the larger thenumber to whom a secret is entrusted, the greater is the probability оwe consid: it's disclosure. This inconvenience more fully strikes us when1778 333at want of secrecy may prevent the successful execution of any meas- res, however excellently formed and digested.But froma single person, or a very small number, we are not to expect nat political honesty, and upright regard to the interest of the body ofie people, and the civil rights of each individual, which are essential togood and free constitution. For these qualities we are to go to the bodyI the people. The voice of the people is said to be the voice of God. No nan will be so hardy and presumptuous, as to affirm the truth of thatof roposition in it's fullest extent. But if this is considered as the intent of,that the people have alwaysa disposition to promote their own happi-(:Ss, and that when they have time to be informed, and the necessary ieans of information given them, they will be able to determine upone necessary measures therefor, no man, of a tolerable acquaintance with ankind, will deny the truth of it. The inconvenience and difficulty in rming any free permanent constitution are, that such is the lot of huanity, the bulk of the people, whose happiness is principally to be conlted in forming a constitution, and in legislation, (as they include the ajority) are so situated in life, and such are their laudable occupations,at they cannot have time for, nor the means of furnishing themselves th proper information, but must be indebted to some of their fellowbjects for the communication. Happy is the man, and blessings willend his memory, who shall improve his leisure, and those abilities ich heaven has indulged him with, in communicating that true in- :rmation, and impartial knowledge, to his fellow subjects, which will sure their happiness. But the artful demagogue, who to gratify his bition or avarice, shall, with the gloss of false patriotism, mislead his Intrymen, and meanly snatch from them the golden glorious oppority of forming a system of political and civil liberty, fraught withssings for themselves, and remote posterity, what language can paint demerit? The execrations of ages will be a punishment inadequate;d his name, though ever blackening as it rolls down the stream ofne, will not catch its proper hue.Yet, when we are forming a Constitution, by deductions that follow 1m established principles, (which is the only good method of forminge for futurity,) we are to look further than to the bulk of the people, the greatest wisdom, firmness, consistency, and perseverance. These1nvstatethismai valSOCIiabeingmantheyof,erty.ovebetin apolit中3334 22. The Essex Resultqualities will most probably be found amongst men of education andfortune. From such men we are to expect genius cultivated by readingand all the various advantages and assistances, which art, and a liberaleducation aided by wealth, can furnish. From these result learning, athorough knowledge of the interests of their country, when consideredabstractedly, when compared with the neighbouring States, and whenwith those more remote, and an acquaintance with it's produce andmanufacture, and it's exports and imports. All these are necessary to beknown, in order to determine what is the true interest of any state; andwithout that interest is ascertained, impossible will it be to discover,whether a variety of certain laws may be beneficial or hurtful. Fromgentlemen whose private affairs compel them to take care of their own household, and deprive them of leisure, these qualifications are not to bewhatever class of men they are enrolled in. generally expected,Let all these respective excellencies 'be united. Let the supreme powebe so disposed and ballanced, that the laws may have in view the interesof the whole; let them be wisely and consistently framed for that endand firmly adhered to; and let them be executed with vigour and dispatch.Before we proceed further, it must be-again considered, and kept always in view, that we are not attempting to form a temporary constitution, one adjusted only to our prèsent circumstances. We wish for on.founded upon such principles as will secure to us freedom and happineshowever our circumstances may vary. One that will smile amidst thdeclensions of European and Asiatic empires, and survive the rudstorms of time. It is not therefore to be understood, that all the menfortune of the present day, are men of wisdom and learning, or that theare not. Nor that the bulk of the people, the farmers, the merchants, tItradesmen, and labourers, are all honest and upright, with single viewsthe public good, or that they are not. In each of the classes there are udoubtedly exceptions, as the rules laid down are general. The propositiis only this. That among gentlemen of education, fortune and leisure, vshall find the largest number of men, possessed of wisdom, learning, afa firmness and consistency of character. That among the bulk oftpeople, we shall find the greatest share of political honesty, probity, ara regard to the interest of the whole, of which they compose the majorilThat wisdom and firmness are not sufficient without good intentior1778 335or the latter without the former. The conclusion is, let the legislativeody unite them all. The former are called the excellencies that resultom an aristocracy; the latter, those that result from a democracy.The supreme power is considered as including the legislative, judicial, id executive powers. The nature and employment of these several pows deservea distinct attention. The legislative power is employed in making laws, or prescribing suchles of action to every individual in the state, as the good of the whole quires, to be conformed to by him in his conduct to the governors and verned, with respect both to their persons and property, according toe several relations he stands in. What rules of action the good of the hole requires, can be ascertained only by the majority, for a reasonmerly mentioned. Therefore the legislative power must be so formed1 exerted, that in prescribing any rule of action, or, in other words,acting any law, the majority must consent. This may be more evident,en the fundamental condition on which every man enters into society, considered. No man consented that his natural alienable rights should wantonly controuled. they were controulable, only when that controululd be subservient to the good of the whole; and that subserviency,m the very nature of government, can be determined but by one olute judge. The minority cannot be that judge, because then therey be two judges opposed to each other, so that this subserviency reins undetermined. Now the enacting of a law, is only the exercise of* controul over the natural alienable rights of each member of the:; and therefore this law must have the consent of the majority, or belid, as being contrary to the fundamental condition of the originalal contract. In a state of nature, every man had the sovereign controulr his own person. He might also have, in that state, a qualified prop- Whatever lands or chattels he had acquired the peaceable possession were exclusively his, by right of occupancy or possession. For while7 were unpossessed he had a right to them equally with any other1, and therefore could not be disturbed in his possession, withoutng injured; for no man could lawfully dispossess him, without having etter right, which no man had. Over this qualified property every mani state of nature had also a sovereign controul. And in entering into tical society, he surrendered this right of controul over his person and[erty, (with an exception to the rights of conscience) to the supreme leg-iple, should336 22. The Essex Resultislative power, to be exercised by that power, when the good of the whol!demanded it. This was all the right he could surrender, being all the alienable right of which he was possessed. The only objects of legislation therfore, are the person and property of the individuals which compose thstate. Ifthe law affects only the persons of the members, the consent of a majority of any members is sufficient. If the law affects the property only, the:consent of those who hold a majority of the property is enough. If it affecti,(as it will very frequently, if not always,) both the person and propertthe consent of a majority of the members, and of those members als:.who hold a majority of the property is necessary. If the consent of th!latter is not obtained, their interest is taken from them against their cosent, and their boasted security of property is vanished. Those who mak!the law, in this case give and grant what is not theirs. The law, in it:principles, becomes a second stamp act. Lord Chatham very finely rid.culed the British house of commons upon that principle. "You can gand grant, said he, only your own. Here you give and grant, what? Tlproperty of the Americans." The people of the Massachusetts-Bay ththought his Lordship's ridicule well pointed. And would they be willto merit the same? Certainly they will agree in the principle, should th:mistake the application. The laws of the province of Massachusetts-Badopted the same principle, and very happily applied it. As the votes:proprietors of common and undivided lands in their meetings, can allonly their property, therefore it is enacted, that in ascertaining the n.jonty, the votes shall be collected according to the respective intereststhe proprietors. If each member, without regard to his property, has equinfluence in legislation with any other, it follows, that some membeenjoy greater benefits and powers in legislation than others, when thebenefits and powers are compared with the rights parted with to pchase them. For the property-holder parts with the controul over his pson, as well as he who hath no property, and the former also parts withe controul over his property, of which the latter is destitute. Therebto constitute a perfect law in a free state, affecting the persons and preerty of the members, it is necessary that the law be for the good ofIwhole, which is to be determined by a majority of the members, and tmajority should include those, who possess a major part of the propein the state.The judicial power follows next after the legislative power; for itcnot act, until after laws are prescribed. Every wise legislator annexe1778 337 sanction to his laws, which is most commonly penal, (that is) a punish- ment either corporal or pecuniary, to be inflicted on the member who thall infringe them. It is the part of the judicial power (which in this territory has always been, and always ought to be, a court and jury) to ascertain the member who hath broken the law. Every man is to be presumed innocent, until the judicial power hath determıned him guilty.When that decision is known, the law annexes the punishment, and the offender is turned over to the executive arm, by whom it is inflicted onhim. The judicial power hath also to determine what legal contracts have been broken, and what member hath been injured by a violation of thelaw, to consider the damages that have been sustained, and to ascertain the recompense. The executive power takes care that this recompense is paid. The executive power is sometimes divided into the external executive,and internal executive. The former comprehends war, peace, the sending and receiving ambassadors, and whatever concerns the transactions of thestate with any other independent state. The confederation of the UnitedStates of America hath lopped off this branch of the executive, and placedt in Congress. We have therefore only to consider the internal executive yower, which is employed in the peace, security and protection of the subject and his property, and in the defence of the state. The executive power is to marshal and command her militia and armies for her defence,o enforce the law, and to carry into execution all the orders of the legıs- ative powers.A little attention to the subject will convince us, that these three powersught to be in different hands, and independent of one another, and so allanced, and each having that check upon the other, that their inde- endence shall be preserved-If the three powers are united, the govern- nent will be absolute, whether these powers are in the hands of one or large number. The same party will be the legislator, accuser, judge and xecutioner; and what probability will an accused person have of an equittal, however innocent he may be, when his judge will be also a arty.If the legislative and judicial powers are united, the maker of the law vill also interpret it; and the law may then speak a language, dictatedy the whims, the caprice, or the prejudice of the judge, with impunitydaれet5دم338 22. The Essex Resultto him-And what people are so unhappy as those, whose laws are uncertain. It will also be in the breast of the judge, when grasping aftehis prey, to make a retrospective law, which shall bring the unhappyoffender within it; and this also he can do with impunityThe subjeccan have no peaceable remedy-The judge will try himself, and an acquittal is the certain consequence. He has it also in his power to enacany law, which may shelter him from deserved vengeance.Should the executive and legislative powers be united, mischiefs themost terrible would follow. The executive would enact those laws ipleased to execute, and no others-The judicial power would be set asidas inconvenient and tardy-The security and protection of the subjeciwould be a shadow-The executive power would make itself absoluteand the government end in a tyrannyLewis the eleventh of France.by cunning and treachery compleated the union of the executive anc.legislative powers of that kingdom, and upon that union establishedsystem of tyranny. France was formerly under a free government.The assembly or representatives of the united states of Holland, exer.cise the executive and legislative powers, and the government thereabsolute.5:Should the executive and judicial powers be united, the subject woulthen have no permanent security of his person and property. The exective power would interpret the laws and bend them to his will; and, ahe is the judge, he may leap over them by artful constructions, and gratify, with impunity, the most rapacious passions. Perhaps no cause in anstate has contributed more to promote internal convulsions, and to staiithe scaffold with it's best blood, than this unhappy union. And it is aunion which the executive power in all states, hath attempted to formif that could not be compassed, to make the judicial power dependerupon it. Indeed the dependence of any of these powers upon eitherthe others, which in all states has always been attempted by one or thother of them, has so often been productive of such calamities, and of th shedding of such oceans of blood, that the page of history seems to be or continued tale of human wretchedness. The following principles now seem to be established.1778 339I. That the supreme power is limited, and cannot controul the unlienable rights of mankind, nor resume the equivalent (that is, the seurity of person and property) which each individual receives, as a conideration for the alienable rights he parted with in entering into politicalOciety.2. That these unalienable rights, and this equivalent, are to be clearlylefined and ascertained in a BILL OF RIGHTS, previous to the ratificalion of any constitution.3. That the supreme power should be so formed and modelled, as toxert the greatest possible power, wisdom, and goodness.4. That the legislative, judicial, and executive powers, are to be lodgedi different hands, that each branch is to be independent, and further, tole so ballanced, and be able to exert such checks upon the others, as willreserve it from a dependence on, or an union with them.5. That government can exert the greatest power when it's supremeithority is vested in the hands of one or a few.6. That the laws will be made with the greatest wisdom, and best tentions, when men, of all the several classes in the state concur in thelacting of them.7. That a government which is so constituted, that it cannot affordagree of political liberty nearly equal to all it's members, is not founded:on principles of freedom and justice, and where any member enjoysdegree of political liberty, the government, so far as it respects him,a tyranny, for he is controuled by laws to which he has never consented.3. That the legislative power of a state hath no authority to controul: natural rights of any of it's members, unless the good of the wholequires it.9. That a majority of the state is the only judge when the general goodles require it.tendTheirrwithmetB340 22. The Essex Result10. That where the legislative power of the state is so formed, thatlaw may be enacted by the minority, each member of the state does no:enjoy political liberty. And11. That in a free government,a law affecting the person and prorerty of it's members, is not valid, unless it has the consent of a majorityof the members, which majority should include those, who hold a majorpart of the property in the state.It may be necessary to proceed further, and notice some particular principles, which should be attended to in forming the three several power:in a free republican government.The first important branch that comes under our consideration, is thlegislatıve body. Was the number of the people so small, that the wholcould meet together without inconvenience, the opinion of the major twould be more easily known. But, besides the inconvenience of assembling such numbers, no great advantages could follow. Sixty thousanpeople could not discuss with candor, and determine with deliberatic:Tumults, riots, and murder would be the result. But the impracticabilitof forming such an assembly, renders it needless to make any furtheobservations. The opinions and consent of the majority must be collectefrom persons, delegated by every freeman of the state for that purpostEvery freeman, who ath sufficient discretion, should have a voice in thelection of his legislators. To speak with precision, in every free statwhere the power of legislation is lodged in the hands of one or morbodies of representatives elected for that purpose, the person of evermember of the state, and all the property in it, ought to be representepecause they are objects of legislation. All the members of the state aqualified to make the election, unless they have not sufficient discretioor are so situated as to have no wills of their own. Persons not twent one years old are deemed of the former class, from their want of yeaand experience. The municipal law of this country will not trust thewith the disposition of their lands, and consigns them to the care of th: parents or guardians. Women what age soever they are of, are also cc.sidered as not having a sufficient acquired discretion; not from a dficiency in their mental powers, but from the natural tenderness ar1778 341 lelicacy of their minds, their retired mode of life, and various domesticluties. These concurring, prevent that promiscuous intercourse with theworld, which is necessary to qualify them for electors. Slaves are of theatter class and have no wills. But are slaves members of a free governnent? We feel the absurdity, and would to God, the situation of Americaind the tempers of it's inhabitants were such, that the slave-holder couldot be found in the land.The rights of representation should be so equally and 1mpartially disibuted, that the representatives should have the same views, and interestswith the people at large. They should think, feel, and act like them, and1 fine, should be an exact miniature of their constituents. They shoulde (if we may use the expression) the whole body politic, with all it'sroperty, rights, and priviledges, reduced to a smaller scale, every part eing diminished in just proportion. To pursue the metaphor If in adisting the representation of freeman, any ten are reduced into one, alle other tens should be alike reduced: or if any hundred should be re-:uced to one, all the other hundreds should have just the same reduction.he representation ought also to be so adjusted, that it should be the i:terest of the representatives at all times, to do justice, therefore equali :terest among the people, should have equal interest among the body of presentatives. The majority of the representatives should also represent najority of the people, and the legislative body should be so constructed,1: t every law affecting property, should have the consent of those who 1d a majority of the property. The law would then be determined tofor the good of the whole by the proper judge, the majority, and the cessary consent thereto would be obtained. and all the members of the te would enjoy political liberty, and an equal degree of it. If the scale1 which the body politic is to be reduced, is but a little smaller than theginal, or, in other words, if a small number of freemen should be re1 ed to one, that is, send one representative, the number of representaas would be too large for the public good. The expences of govern1 at would be enormous. The body would be too unwieldy to deliberateh candor and coolness. The variety of opinions and oppositions would tate the passions. Parties would be formed and factions engendered.e members would list under the banners of their respective leadersfress and intrigue would conduct the debates, and the result would1: d only to promote the ambition or interest of a particular party. SuchدوerattionitselpresinstatagltoeasyandPmmomp부342 22. The Essex Resulthas always been in some degree, the course and event of debates institutecand managed by a large multitude.For these reasons, some foreign politicians have laid it down as a rulethat no body of men larger than an hundred, would transact busineswell: and Lord Chesterfield called the British house of commons a mermob, because of the number of men which composed it.Elections ought also to be freed No bribery, corruption, or undue infuence should have place. They stifle the free voice of the people, corrurtheir morals, and introduce a degeneracy of manners, a supineness otemper, and an inattention to their liberties, which pave the road for thapproach of tyranny, in all it's frightful forms.The man who buys an elector by his bribes, will sell him again, anreap a profit from the bargain; and he thereby becomes a dangerotmember of society. The legislative body will hold the purse strings, anmen will struggle for a place in that body to acqure a share of the publwealth. It has always been the case. Bribery will be attempted, and thlaws will not prevent it. All states have enacted severe laws against :and they have been ineffectual. The defect was in their forms of goverrment. They were not so contrived, as to prevent the practicability of iIf a small corporation can place a man in the legislative body, to britwill be easy and cheap. To bribe a large corporation would be difficиand expensive, if practicable. In Great-Britain, the representatives of thecounties and great cities are freely elected. To bribe the electors theris impracticable: and their representatives are the most upright and abstatesmen in parliament. The small boroughs are bought by the ministand opulent men; and their representatives are the mere tools of admiistration or faction. Let us take warning.A further check upon bribery is, when the corrupter of a people knovnot the electors. If delegates were first appointed by a number of corpo:tions, who at a short day were to elect their representatives, these blochounds in a state would be at fault. They would not scent their ganBesides, the representatives would probably be much better men-thwould be double refined.But it may be said, the virtuous American would blast with indignatithe man, who should proffer him a bribe. Let it now be admitted as1778 343act. We ask, will that always be the case? The most virtuous states have ecome vicious. The morals of all people, in all ages, have been shock- ngly corrupted. The rigidly virtuous Spartans, who banished the use ofold and silver, who gloried in their poverty for centuries, at last fell arey to luxury and corruption. The Romans, whose intense love to their ountry, astonishesa modern patriot, who fought the battles of the reublic for three hundred years without pay, and who, as volunteers, exnded her empire over Italy, were at last dissolved in luxury, courted he hand of bribery, and finally sold themselves as slaves, and prostrated eir country to tyrants the most ignominious and brutal. Shall we alonepast an exemption from the general fate of mankind? Are our private id political virtues to be transmitted untainted from generation to neration, through a course of ages? Have we not already degeneratedom the pure morals and disinterested patriotism of our ancestors? Andre not our manners becoming soft and luxurious, and have not our ices began to shoot? Would one venture to prophecy, that in a centuryom this period, we shall be a corrupt luxurious people, perhaps the ose of that century would stamp this prophecy with the title of history.The rights of representation should also be held sacred and inviolable,1 for this purpose, representation should be fixed upon known andy principles; and the constitution should make provision, that recourse ould constantly be had to those principles withina very small periopyears, to rectify the errors that will creep in through lapse of time, or tration of situations. The want of fixed principles of government, and tated regular recourse to them, have produced the dissolution of all tes, whose constitutions have been transmitted to us by history.But the legislative power must not be trusted with one assembly.A igle assembly is frequently influenced by the vices, follies, passions, and judices of an individual. It is liable to be avaricious, and to exemptIf from the burdens it lays upon it's constituents. It is subject to ambi-, and after a series of years, will be prompted to vote itself perpetual.e long parliament in England voted itself perpetual, and thereby, for ime, destroyed the political liberty of the subject. Holland was gov- ed by one representative assembly annually elected. They afterwards ed themselves from annual to septennial, then for life; and finally rted the power of filling up all vacancies, without application to theirtheatelservdisdtoimtheleadthe S甲四 60中四ね田の明STheop?22. The Essex Resultconstituents. 344 The government of Holland is now a tyranny thoughrepublic.The result of a single assembly will be hasty and indigested, and theijudgments frequently absurd and inconsistent. There must be a seconbody to revise with coolness and wisdom, and to controul with firmnesindependent upon the first, either for their creation, or existence. Yet thfirst must retain a right to a similar revision and controul over the seconeLet us now ascertain some particular principles which should be atended to, in forming the executive power.When we recollect the nature and employment of this power, we finthat it ought to be conducted with vigour and dispatch. It should be abto execute the laws without opposition, and to controul all the turbulespirits in the state, who should infringe them. If the laws are not obeyethe legislative power is vain, and the judicial is mere pageantry. As thelaws, with their several sanctions, are the only securities of person arproperty, the members of the state can confide in, if they lay dormathrough failure of execution, violence and oppression will erect theheads, and stalk unmolested through the land. The judicial power ougto discriminate the offender, as soon after the commission of the offenas an impartial trial will admit; and the executive arm to inflict the puishment immediately after the criminal is ascertained. This would haan happy tendency to prevent crimes, as the commission of them wotawaken the attendant idea of punishment; and the hope of an escajwhich is often an inducement, would be cut cut off. The executive powought therefore in these cases, to be exerted with union, vigour, andpatch. Another duty of that power is to arrest offenders, to bring themtrial. This cannot often be done, unless secrecy and expedition are usThe want of these two requisites, will be more especially inconvenientrepressing treasons, and those more enormous offences which strikethe happiness, if not existence of the whole. Offenders of these classesnot act alone. Some number is necessary to the compleating of the criCabals are formed with art, and secrecy presides over their councils; wimeasures the most fatal are the result, to be executed by desperation.these men the thunder of the state should be hurled with rapidity; fothey hear it roll at a distance, their danger is over. When they gaintelligence of the process, they abscond, and wait a more favourable1778 345 portunity. If that is attended with difficulty, they destroy all the evidenceof their guilt, brave government, and deride the justice and power of the state.It has been observed likewise, that the executive power is to act as aptain-General, to marshal the militia and armies of the state, and, for ner defence, to lead them onon to battle. These armies should always be omposed of the militia or body of the people. Standing armies are a remendous curse to a state. In all periods in which they have existed,hey have been the scourge of mankind. In this department, union, vig- ur, secrecy, and dispatch are more peculiarly necessary. Was one to proose a body of militia, over which two Generals, with equal authority, hould have the command, he would be laughed at. Should one pretend,hat the General should have no controul over his subordinate officers,ither to remove them or to supply their posts, he would be pitied foris ignorance of the subject he was discussing. It is obviously necessary, hat the man who calls the militia to action, and assumes the military ntroul over them in the field, should previously know the numberis men, their equipments and residence, and the talents and tempers ofne several ranks of officers, and their respective departments in the state,at he may wisely determine to whom the necessary orders are to beof:ued. Regular and particular returns of these requisites should be frenently made. Let it be enquired, are these returns to be made only to1: legislative body, or a branch of it, which necessarily moves slow?-Isi General to go to them for information? intreat them to remove anproper officer, and give him another they shall chuse? and in fine is he supplicate his orders from them, and constantly walk where their fing-strings shall direct his steps? If so, where are the power and forcethe militia-where the union-where the dispatch and profound secy? Or shall these returns be made to him?-when he may see with own eyes-be his ownjudge of the merit, or demerit of his officerscern their various talents and qualifications, and employ them as theIvice and defence of his country demand. Besides, the legislative bodya branch of it is local-they cannot therefore personally inform themIres of these facts, but must judge upon trust. The General's opinion1 be founded upon his own observations-the officers and privates of militia will act under his eye: and, if he has it in his power immedi- ly to promote or disgrace them,they will be induced to noble exertions. nay further be observed here, that if the subordinate civil or militaryenahathtrieيمB6Ω346 22. The Essex Resultexecutive officers are appointed by the legislative body or a branch of itthe former will become dependent upon the latter, and the necessary independence of either the legislative or executive powers upon the otheris wanting. The legislative power will have that undue influence over thexecutive which will amount to a controul, for the latter will be theicreatures, and will fear their creators.One further observation may be pertinent. Such is the temper of mankind, that each man will be too liable to introduce his own friends andconnexions into office, without regarding the public interest. If one ma:or a small number appoint, their connexions will probably be introducedIf a large number appoint, all their connexions will receive the samfavour. The smaller the number appointing, the more contracted are thei connexions, and for that reason, there will be a greater probabilitybetter officers, as the connexions of one man or a very small numberfill but a very few of the offices. When a small number of men have thpower of appointment, or the management in any particular departmenca itheir conduct is accurately noticed. On any miscarriage or imprudencthe public resentment lies with weight. All the eyes of the people are cOverted to a point, and produce that attention to their censure, and thidfear of misbehaviour, which are the greatest security the state can hav:of the wisdom and prudence of its servants. This observation will strikus, when we recollect that many a man will zealously promote an afaiin a public assembly, of which he is but one of a large number, yet, 2the same time, he would blush to be thought the sole author of it. Forthese reasons, the supreme executive power should be rested in the handof one or of a small number, who should have the appointment of asubordinate executive officers. Should the supreme executive officer lelected by the legislative body, there would be a dependence of the схестtive power upon the legislative. Should he be elected by the judicial bodthere also would be a dependence. The people at large must therefodesignate the person, to whom they will delegate this power And upe the people, there ought to be a dependence of all the powers in goverment, for all the officers in the state are but the servants of the people.We have not noticed the navy-department. The conducting of thatpartment is indisputably in the supreme executive power. and we stpose, that all the observations respecting the Captain-General, applythe Admiral.347us1778We are next to fix upon some general rules which should governn forming the judicial power. This power is to be independent upon the executive and legislative. The judicial power should be a court and jury,or as they are commonly called, the Judges and jury. The jury are thepeers or equals of every man, and are to try all facts. The province of thefudges is to preside in and regulate all trials, and ascertain the law. Weshall only consider the appointment of the Judges. The same power vhich appoints them, ought not to have the power of removing them, notven for mısbehavior. That conduct only would then be deemed mis- ehavior which was opposed to the will of the power removing.A re- noval in this case for proper reasons, would not be often attainable. for> remove a man from an office, because he is not properly qualified to ischarge the duties of it, is a severe censure upon that man or body en who appointed him-and mankind do not love to censure them- Ives. Whoever appoints the judges, they ought not to be removable at leasure, for they will then feel a dependence upon that man or body ofien who hath the power of removal. Nor ought they to be dependentofpon either the executive or legislative power for their sallaries; for ifey are, that power on whom they are thus dependent, can starve themto a compliance. One of these two powers should appoint, and the other move. The legislative will not probably appoint so good men as the xecutive, for reasons formerly mentioned. (The former are composed oflarge body of men who have a numerous train of friends and conxions, and they do not hazard their reputations, which the executivellIt has often been mentioned that where a large body of men are ponsible for any measures,a regard to their reputations, and to the blic opinion, will not prompt them to use that care and precaution,ich such regard will prompt one oro a few to make use of. Let one :ore observation be now introduced to confirm it. Every man has someends and dependents who will endeavor to snatch him from the publicred. One man has but a few comparatively, they are not numerousugh to protect him, and he falls a victim to his own misconduct. hen measures are conducted by a large number, their friends and con- :ions are numerous and noisy-they are dispersed through the State heir clamors stifle the execrations of the people, whose groans cannotn be heard. But to resume, neither will the executive body be the mostper judge when to remove. If this body is judge, it must also be theuser, or the legislative body, or a branch of it, must be-If the execuie body complains, it will be both accuser and judge-If the complaınt348 22. The Essex Resultis preferred by the legislative body, or a branch of it, when the judges areappointed by the legislative body, then a body of men who were concerned in the appointment, must in most cases complain of the impropriety of their own appointment. Let therefore the judges be appointedby the executive body-let their salaries be independent-and let themhold their places during good behaviour Let their misbehaviour be determınable by the legıslative body--Let onone branch thereof impeach, andthe other judge. Upon these principles the judicial body will be independent so long as they behave well and a proper court is appointed toascertain their mal-conduct.The Committee afterwards proceeded to consider the Constitutiorframed by the Convention of this State. They have examined that Constitution with all the care the shortness of the time would admit. Andthey are compelled, though reluctantly to say, that some of the principlesupon which it is founded, appeared to them inconsonant, not only to thenatural rights of mankind, but to the fundamental condition of theoriginal social contract, and the principles of a free republican government. In that form of government the governor appears to be the supreme executive officer, and the legislative power is in an house of representatives and senate. It may be necessary to descend to a more particulaconsideration of the several articles of that constitution.The second article thereof appears exceptionable upon the principlewe have already attempted to establish, because the supreme executiv:officer hath a seat and voice in one branch of the legislative body, and :3assisting in originating and framing the laws, the Governor being entitled to a seat and voice inin the Senate, and to preside in it, and mathereby have that influence in the legislative body, which the supremexecutive officer ought-not to have,iSre The third article among other things, ascertains the qualifications cthe Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Senators and Representativesspecting property-The estate sufficient to qualify a man for Governoso small, it is hardly any qualification at all. Further, the methodascertaining the value of the estates of the officers aforesaid is vague aruncertain as it depends upon the nature and quantity of the currencand the encrease of property, and not upon any fixed principles. Tharticle therefore appears to be exceptionable.이1778 349The sixth article regulates the election of representatives. So manybjections present themselves to this article, we are at a loss which firstmention. The representation is grossly unequal, and it is flagrantlyunjust. It violates the fundamental principle of the original social contract, and introduces an unweildy and expensive house. Representationbught to be equal upon the principles formerly mentioned. By this articleiny corporation, however small, may send one representative, while no corporation can send more than one, unless it has three hundred freemen. Iwenty corporations (of three hundred freemen in each) containing inhe whole six thousand freemen, may send forty representatives, whenne corporation, which shall contain six thousand two hundred and wenty, can send but nineteen. One third of the state may send a majorityf the representatives, and all the laws may be enacted by a minorityDo all the members of the state then, enjoy political liberty? Will theyiot be controuled by laws enacted against their consent? When we go irther and find, that sixty members make an house, and that the con- urrence of thirty one (which is about one twelfth of what may be the resent number of representatives) is sufficient to bind the persons and roperties of the members of the State, we stand amazed, and are sorryhat any well disposed Americans were so inattentive to the consequencesf such an arrangement. The number of representatives is too large to debate with coolness and eliberation, the public business will be protracted to an undue length ande pay of the house is enormous. As the number of freemen in the State icreases, these inconveniences will encrease; and in a century, the house frepresentatives will, from their numbers, be a mere mob. Observationspon this article croud upon us, but we will dismiss it, with wishing thate mode of representation there proposed, may be candidly comparedith the principles which have been already mentioned in the course ofir observations upon the legislative power, and upon representation in free republic.The ninth article regulates the election of Senators, which we think ceptionable. As the Senators for each district will be elected by all the cemen in the state properly qualified, a trust is reposed in the peoplehich they are unequal to. The freemen in the late province of Main, aregive in their votes for senators in the western district, and so, on the ntrary. Is it supposeable that the freemen in the county of Lincoln canmeGotofexellatS 0350 22. The Essex Resultjudge of the political merits of a senator in Berkshire? Must not theseveral corporations in the state, in a great measure depend upon theirrepresentatives for information? And will not the house of representatives in fact chuse the senators? That independence of the senate uponthe house, which the constitution seems to have intended, is visionaryand the benefits which were expected to result from a senate, as onedistinct branch of the legislative body, will not be discoverable.The tenth article prescribes the method in which the Governor is to beelected. This method is open to, and will introduce bribery and corruption, and also originate parties and factions in the state. The Governor ofRhode-Island was formerly elected in this manner, and we all know hovlong a late Governor there, procured his re-election by methods the mosunjustifiable. Bribery was attempted in an open and fagrant manner.The thirteenth article ascertains the authority of the general court, anby that article we find their power is limited only by the several articleof the constitution. We do not find that the rights of conscience are ascertained and defined, unless they may be thought to be in the thirty fourtarticle. That article we conceive to be expressed in very loose and uncetain terms. What is a religious profession and worship of God, has beedisputed for sixteen hundred years, and the various sects of christianihave not yet settled the dispute. What is a free exercise and enjoyment oreligious worship has been, and still is, a subject of much altercationAnd this free exercise and enjoyment is said to be allowed to the protetants of this state by the constitution, when we suppose it to be an m.alienable right of all mankind, which no human power can wrest fro:them. We do not find any bill of rights either accompanying the constitition, or interwoven with it, and no attempt is made to define and secuthat protection of the person and property of the members of the statwhich the legislative and executive bodies cannot withhold, unless thgeneral words of confirming the right to trial by jury, should be corsidered as such definition and security We think a bill of rights ascetaining and clearly describing the rights of conseience, and that securiof person and property, the supreme power of the state is bound to affoto all the members thereof, ought to be fully ratified, before, or at tsame time with, the establishment of any constitution.inThe fifteenth article fixes the number which shall constitute a quoruthe senate and house of representatives-We think these numbe1778 351 much too small-This constitution will immediately introduce about Three hundred and sixty mumbers into the house. If sixty makea quorum,the house may totally change its members six different times; and it probably will very often in the course ofa long session, be composed ofsuch a variety of members, as will retard the public business, and intro- Juce confusion in the debates, and inconsistency in the result. Besides the number of members, whose concurrence is necessary to enact a law, i1S so imall, that the subjects of the state will have no security, that the laws which are to controul their natural rights, have the consent of a majority of the freemen. The same reasoning applies to the senate, though not so trikingly, as a quorum of that body must consist of nearly a third of the Theenators. eighteenth article describes the several powers of the Governor or 1e supreme executive officer. We find in comparing the several articlesf the constitution, that the senate are the only court to try mpeachments.Ve also conceive that every officer in the state ought to be amenable toich court. We think therefore that the members of that court oughtever to be advisory to any officer in the state. If their advice is the result: inattention or corruption, they cannot be brought to punishment by ipeachment, as they will be their own judges. Neither will the officer ho pursues their advice be often, if ever, punishable, for a similar reain. To condemn this officer will be to reprobate their own advice-conseently a proper body is not formed to advise the Governor, whena dden emergency may render advice expedient for the senate advise, id are the court to try impeachments. We would now make one rther observation, that we cannot discover in this article or in any partthe constitution that the executive power is entrusted witha checkon the legislative power, sufficient to prevent the encroach ent of the ter upon the former-Without this check the legislative power will ercise the executive, and in a series of years the government will be as solute as that of Holland. The nineteenth article regulates the appointment of the several classes officers. And we find that almost all the officers are appointed by the vernor and Senate. An objection formerly made occurs here. The hate with the Governor are the court to remove these officers for mis- naviour. Those officers, in general, who are guilty of male-conduct in: execution of their office, were improper men to be appointed. Suffi- nt care was not taken in ascertaining their political military or moralhununa822. The Essex Resultqualifications. 352 Will the senators therefore if they appoint, be a propercourt to remove. Will not a regard to their own characters have an unduebias upon them. This objection will grow stronger, if we may supposethat the time will come when a man may procure his appointment tooffice by bribery. The members of that court therefore who alone canremove for misbehaviour, should not be concerned in the appointmentBesides, if one branch of the legislative body appoint the executive officers,and the same branch alone can remove them, the legislative power willacquire an undue influence over the executive.The twenty second article describes the authority the Governor shallhave in all business to be transacted by him and the Senate. The Governor by this article must be present in conducting an impeachment. Hehas it therefore in his power to rescue a favourite from impeachment, solong has as he is Governor, by absenting himself from the Senate, wheneverthe impeachment is to be brought forwards.We cannot conceive upon what principles the twenty third article as! certains the speaker of the house to be one of the three, the majority ofwhom have the power of granting pardons. The speaker is an officer ofone branch of the legislative body, and hourly depends upon them fohis existence in that character-he therefore would not probably be disposed to offend any leading party in the house, by consenting to, odenying a pardon. An undue influence might prevail and the power opardoning be improperly exercised.-When the speaker is guilty of thiimproper exercise, he cannot be punished but by impeachment, and as t1s commonly a favourite of a considerable party in the house, it willdifficult to procure the accusation; for his party will support him.The judges by the twenty fourth article are to hold their places duringood behaviour, but we do not find that their salaries are any whedirected to be fixed. The house of representatives may therefore starthem into a state of dependence.The twenty-eighth article determines the mode of electing and remoing the delegates for Congress. It is by joint ballot of the house arSenate. These delegates tes should be some of the best men in the StalTheir abilities and characters should be thoroughly investigated. I1will be more effectually done, if they are elected by the legislative boceach branch having a right to originate or negative the choice, and1778 353 moval. And we cannot conceive why they should not be elected in this manner, as well as all officers who are annually appointed with annualgrants of their sallaries, as is directed in the nineteenth article. By thenode of election now excepted against, the house may choose their delegates, altho' every Senator should vote against their choice. The thirty-fourth article respecting 1.berty of conscience, we think xceptionable, but the observations necessary to be made thereon, were ntroduced in animadverting upon the thirteenth article. The Committee have purposely been as concise as possible in their bservations upon the Constitution proposed by the Convention of this tate-Where they thought it was nonconformable to the principles of aee republican government, they have ventured to point out the non- nformity-Where they thought it was repugnant to the original social ontract, they have taken the liberty to suggest that repugnance-Andhere they were persuaded it was founded in political injustice, they ave dared to assert it. The Committee, in obedience to the direction of this body, afterwards oceeded to delineate the general outlines ofa Constitution, conformablewhat have been already reported by them, as the principles of a free publican government, and as the natural rights of mankind.They first attempted to delineate the legislative body. It has alreadyen premised, that the legislative power is to be lodged in two bodies, nposed of the representatives of the people. That representation oughtbe equal. And that no law affecting the person and property of the mbers of the state ought to be enacted, without the consent of a ma- ity of the members, and of those also who hold a major part of the perty.In forming the first body of legislators, let regard be had only to the resentation of persons, not of property. This body we call the house of resentatives. Ascertain the number of representatives. It ought not to so large as will induce an enormous expence to government, nor too vieldy to deliberate with coolness and attention; nor so small as to be Ecquainted with the situation and circumstances of the state. One idred will be large enough, and perhaps it may be too large. We are suaded that any number of men exceeding that, cannot do business 8옴Ω يم354 22. The Essex Resultwith such expedition and propriety a smaller number could. However letthat at present be considered as the number. Let us have the number offreemen in the several counties in the state; and let these representativesbe apportioned among the respective countes, in proportion to theirnumber of freemen. The representation yet remains equal. Let the repre.sentatives for the several counties be elected in this manner. Let theseveral towns in the respective counties, the first wednesday in Mayannually, choose delegates to meet in county convention on the thursdaynext after the second wednesday in May annually, and there elect therepresentatives for the county-Let the number of delegates each toWIshall send to the county convention be regulated in this manner. Ascertain that town which hath the smallest number of freemen; and let thatown send one. Suppose the smallest town contains fifty. All the othe.towns shall then send as many members as they have fifties. If after thfifties are deducted, there remains an odd number, and that number:twenty five, or more, let them send another, if less, let no notice be takerof it. We have taken a certain for an uncertain number. Here the representation is as equal as the situation of a large political society will admiNo qualification should be necessary for a representative, exceptí residenoin the county the two years preceeding his election, and the payment otaxes those years. Any freeman may be an elector who hath resided in thcounty the year preceeding. The same-qualification is requisite for a dekgate, that is required of a representative. The representatives are designeto represent the persons of the members, and therefore we do not cofsider a qualification in point of property necessary for them.These representatives shall be returned from the several parts of ttcounty in this manner-Each county convention shall divide the couniinto as many districts as they send representatives, by the following ruleAs we have the number of freemen in the county, and the numbercounty representatives, by dividing the greater by the less we have ttnumber of freemen entitled to send one representative. Then add as maradjoining towns together asas contain that number of freemen, or as neas may be, and let those towns form one district, and proceed in ttmanner through the county. Let a representative be chosen out of easdistrict, and let all the representatives be elected out of the members wlcompose the county convention. In this house we find a proportionarepresentation of persons. Ifa law passes this house it hath the consenta majority of the freemen; and here we may look for political honesprobity and upright intentions to the good of the whole. Let this hou1778 355 therefore originate money-bills, as they will not have that inducement to extravagant liberality which an house composed of opulent men would,as the former would feel more sensibly the consequences. This county convention hath other business to do, which shall be mentioned hereafter. We shall now only observe, that this convention, upon a proper summons, is to meet again, to supply all vacancies in it's representation,by electing other representatives out of the district in which the vacancy falls. The formation of the second body of legıslators next came under consideration, which may be called the senate. In electing the membersfor this body, let the representation of property be attended to. The senators may be chosen most easily in a county convention, which may be called the senatorial convention. Ascertain the number of senators. Per- haps thirty three will be neither too large nor too small. Let seven more be added to the thirty three which will make forty-these seven will be wanted for another purpose to be mentioned hereafter-Apportion the whole number upon the several counties, in proportion to the state-tax each county pays. Each freeman of the state, who is possessed of a certain quantity of property, may be an elector of the senators. To ascertain theralue ofa man's estate by a valuation is exceedingly difficult if possible,unless he voluntarily returnsa valuation-To ascertain it by oath would e laying snares for a man's conscience, and would be a needless multipli- ation of oaths if another method could be devised-To fix his propertyit any certain sum, would be vague and uncertain, such is the fluctuationI even the best currency, and such the continual alteration of the ominal value of propertyLet the state-tax assessed on each freeman's state decide it-That tax will generally bear a very just proportion to the ominal value of a currency, and of property. Let every freeman whosestate pays such a proportion of the state-tax that had been last assessed revious to his electing, as three pounds is to an hundred thousand ounds, be an elector-The senatorial convention may be composed of lelegates from the several towns elected in this manner. Ascertain the own which contains the smallest number of freemen whose estates pay uch tax, and ascertain that number. Suppose it to be thirty. Let that townend one, and let all the other towns in the county send as many deleates as they have thirties. If after the thirties are deducted, there remainsn odd number, and that number is fifteen, or more, let them send nother, if it is less than fifteen let no notice be taken of it. Let the deleites for the senatorial convention be chosen at the same time with the ¡unty delegates, and meet in convention the second wednesday in May repangsamm 요요이8 5356 22. The Essex Resultannually, which is the day before the county convention is to meet-andlet no county delegate be a senatorial delegate the same year-We havehere a senate (deducting seven in the manner and for the purpose hereafter to be mentioned) which more peculiarly represents the propertyof the state; and no act will pass both branches of the legislative body,without having the consent of those members who hold a major part ofthe property of the state. In electing the senate in this manner, the repre.sentation will be as equal as the fluctuation of property will admit of, andit is an equal representation of property so far as the number of senatorsare proportioned among the t several counties. Such is the distribution ofintestate estates in this country, the inequality between the estates of thebulk of the property holders is so inconsiderable, and the tax necessaryqualify a man to be an elector of a senator is so moderate, it may bedemonstrated, that a law which passes both branches will have the consent of those persons who hold a majority of the property in the state. Notofreeman should be a delegate for the senatorial convention unless hisestate pays the same tax which was necessary to qualify him to electdelegates for that convention; and no freeman shall be an elector of adelegate for that convention, nor a delegate therefor, unless he has beenan inhabitant of the county for the two years next preceeding. No personshall be capable of an election into the senate unless he has been arinhabitant of the county for three years next preceeding his electionHis qualification in point of estate is also to be considered. Let the statetax which was assessed upon his èstate for the three years next preceed.ing his election be upon an average, at the rate of six pounds in an hun.dred thousand annually.This will be all the duty of the senatorial convention unless thereshould be a vacancy in the senate when it will be again convened tofill up the vacancy. These two bodies will have the execution of thelegislative power; and they are composed of the necessary members tomake a just proportion of taxes among the several counties. This is allthe discretionary power they will have in apportioning the taxes.Once in five years at least, the legislative body shall make a valuationfor the several counties in the State, and at the same time each countyshall make a county valuation, by a county convention chosen for thalpurpose only, by the same rules which the legislative body observed irmaking the State valuation-and whenever a State valuation is madelet the several county valuations be also made. The legislative bops1778 357fter they have proportioned the State tax among the several counties,hall also proportion the tax among the several plantations and towns, greeably to the county valuation, to be filed in the records of the Genral Court for that purpose. It may be observed that this county valuaion will be taken and adjusted in county convention, in which personsaly are to be equally represented: and it may also be objected that roperty ought also to be represented for this purpose. It is answeredhat each man in the county will pay at least a poll tax, and thereforeught to be represented in this convention-that it is impracticable inne convention to have persons and property both represented, with anylegree of equality, without great intricacy-and that, where both cannot represented without great intricacy, the representation of propertyhould yield the preference to that of persons. The counties ought not toe compelled to pay their own representatives-if so, the counties remoterom the seat of government would be at a greater charge than the other ounties, which would be unjust-for they have only an equal influencei legislation with the other counties, yet they cannot use that influenceit at a greater expence-They therefore labor under greater disad ntages in the enjoyment of their political liberties, than the other bunties. If the remote counties enjoyed a larger proportional influence in :gislation than the other counties, it would be just they should pay their 'wn members, for the enhanced expence would tend to check this inquality of representation.All the representatives should attend the house, if possible, and alle senators the senate. A change of faces in the course of a sessiontards and perplexes the public business. No man should accept of a seat the legislative body without he intendsa constant attendance upon1s duty. Unavoidable accidents, necessary private business, sickness andath may, and will preventa general attendance: but the numbers re- revisite to constitute a quorum of the house and senate should be soge as to admit of the absence of members, only for the reasons afore-: d. If members declined to attend their duty they should be expelled,id others chosen who would do better. Let seventy five constitutea torum of the house, and twenty four of the senate. However no lawight to be enacted at any time, unless it has the concurrence of fifty oneipresentatives, and seventeen senators.We have now the legislative body (deducting seven of the senators.)tch branch hath a negative upon the other-and either branch mayBetanmaun이358 22. The Essex Resultoriginate any bill or propose any amendment, except a money bill, whichAsshould be concurred or nonconcurred by the senate in the whole. Thelegislative body is so formed and ballanced that the laws will be madewith the greatest wisdom and the best intentions; and the proper consent thereto is obtained. Each man enjoys political liberty, and his civilrights will be taken care of. And all orders of men are interested ingovernment, will put confidence in it, and struggle for it's support.the county and senatorial delegates are chosen the same day throughoutthe State, as all the county conventions are held at the same time, andthe senatorial conventions on one day, and as these delegates areformed into conventions on a short day after their election, elections willbe free, bribery will be impracticable, and party and factions will not beformed. As the senatorial conventions are held the day before the countyconventions, the latter will have notice of the persons elected senatorsand will not return them as representatives-The senatorial conventionshouldall after it's first election of senators be adjourned without day, butnot dissolved, and to be occasionally called together by the supremeexecutive officer to keep the senate full, should a senator elected declinethe office, or afterwards resign, be expelled, or die. The county conven.tion in the same way are to keep the representation full, and also supplyall vacancies in the offices they will be authorised to appoint to and electas will be presently mentioned. By making provision in the constitutionthat recourse be had to these principles of representation every twentyyears, by taking new lists of the freemen for that purpose, and by a newdistribution of the number of representatives agreeably thereto, and ofthe senators in proportion to the State tax, representation will be alwaysfree and equal. These principles easily accommodate themselves to theerection of new counties and towns. Crude and hasty determinations ofthe house will be revised or controuled by the senate; and those viewsof the senate which may arise from ambition or a disregard to civiliberty will be frustrated. Government will acquire a dignity and frmness, which is the greatest security of the subject: while the people lookon, and observe the conduct of their servants, and continue or withdravtheir favour annually, according to their merit or demerit.The forming of the executive power came next in course. Every freeman in the State should have a voice in this formation; for as the executive power hath no controul over property, but in pursuance of establisherlaws, the consent of the property-holders need not be considered as necet1748 359sary. Let the head of the executive power bea Governor (or in his ab- sence, or on his death, a Lieutenant Governor) and let him be elected in the several county conventions by ballot, on the same day the representatives are chosen. Let a return be made by each man fixed upon by the several conventions, and the man who is returned by any county shallbe considered as having as many votes, as that county sends representa- ives. Therefore the whole number of votes will be one hundred. Hewho hath fifty one or more votes is Governor. Let the Lieutenant- Governor be designated in the same way. This head of the supreme executive power should have a privy council, or a small select number (suppose seven) to advise with. Let him not chuse them himselffor he(night then, if wickedly disposed, elect no persons who had integrity enough to controul him by their advice. Let the legislative body elect them in this manner. The house shall chuse by ballot seven out of the enate. These shall be a privy council, four of whom shall constitute a quorum. Let the Governor alone marshal the militia, and regulate the ame, together with the navy, and appoint all their officers, and removehem at pleasure. The temper, use, and end of a militia and navy require: He should likewise command the navy and militia, and have powero march the latter any where within the state. Was this territory so ituated, that the militia could not be marched out of it, without enteringn enemy's country, he should have no power to march them out ofie state. But the late province of Main militia must march through New-Hampshire to enter Massachusetts, and so, on the contrary. The eighbouring states are all friends and allies, united by a perpetual con- deracy. Should Providence or Portsmouth be attacked suddenly, a day'slay might be of most pernicious consequence. Was the consent of the gislative body, or a branch of it, necessary, a longer delay would be ravoidable. Still the Governor should be under a controul. Let himarch the militia without the state with the advice of his privy council,d his authority be continued for ten days and no longer, unless the gislative body in the mean time prolong it. In these ten days he may nvene the legislative body, and take their opinion. If his authority ist continued, the legislative body may controul him, and order theilitia back. If his conduct is disapproved, his reputation, and that ofs advisers is ruined. He will never venture on the measure, unless the neral good requires it, and then he will be applauded. Remember theI ction of Governor and council is annual. But the legislative body must ve a check upon the Captain General. He is best qualified to appointareBmalhe好江Thea360 22. The Essex Resulthis subordinate officers, but he may appoint improper ones--He has thesword, and may wish to form cabals amongst his officers to perpetuate hispower-The legıslative body should therefore have a power of removingany militia officer at pleasure- Each branch should have this power. TheCaptain General will then be effectually controuled. The Governor withhis privy council may also appoint the following executive officers, vizThe attorney General and the justices of the peace, who shall hold theirplaces during good behaviour-This misbehaviour shall be determinedby the senate on impeachment of the house. On this scheme a mutualcheck is thus far preserved in both the powers. The supreme executiveofficer as he is annually removeable by the people, will for that, and theother reasons formerly mentioned, probably appoint the best officers: andwhen he does otherwise the legislative power will remove them. Themilitia officers which are solely appointed, and removeable at pleasureby the Governor, are removeable at pleasure by either branch of thelegislative. Those executive officers which are removeable only for misbehaviour, the consent of the privy council, chosen by the legislativebody, is first necessary toto their appointment, and afterwards they are removeable by the senate, on impeachment of the house. We now wan.only to give the executive power a check upon the legislative, to preven:the latter from encroaching on the former, and stripping it of all itrights. The legislative in all states hath attempted it where this check wawanting, and have prevailed, and the freedom of the state was theretdestroyed. This attempt hath resulted from that lust of domination which in some degree influences all men, and all bodies of men. ThGovernor therefore with the consent of the privy coundh may negativany law, proposed to be enacted by the legislative body. The advantagwhich will attend the due use of this negative are, that thereby thexecutive power will be preserved entire-the encroachments of the leg:lative will be repelled, and the powers of both be properly balanced. Asubject to the business of the legislative body will be brought into one point, anto an impartial consideration on a regular consistent plan. As tGovernor will have it in charge to state the situation of the governmer as his ito the legislative body at the opening of every session, as far asformation will qualify him therefor, he will now know officially,that has been done, with what design the laws were enacted, how fthey have answered the proposed end, and what still remains to compkthe intention of the legislative body The reasons why he will not maan improper use of his negative are-his annual election-the ann1778 361 political character and honour are at stake-If he makes a proper use of tis negative by preserving the executive powers entire, by pointing out iny mistake in the laws which may escape any body of men through nattention, he will have the smiles of the people. If on the contrary, he nakes an improper use of his negative, and wantonly opposesa law thats for the public good, his reputation, and that of his privy council are orfeited, and they are disgracefully tumbled from their seats. This Gov- rnor is not appointed by a King, or his ministry, nor does he recerve istructions from a party of men, who are pursuing an interest diamet- cally opposite to the good of the state. His interest is the same with at of every man in the state; and he knows he must soon return, and nk to a level with the rest of the community.The danger is, he will be too cautious of using his negative for the iiterest of the state. His fear of offending may prompt him, if he is a Imid man, to yield up some parts of the executive power. The Governor tould be thus qualified for his office-He shall have been an inhabitant the state for four years next preceeding his election, and paid public xes those years-Let the state tax assessed upon his estate those years; upon an average, at the rate of sixteen pounds in an hundred thou- nd annually. The Lieutenant Governor should have the same qualifications that are quired from the Governor. In the absence out of the state of the Gov- hor and Lieutenant Governor, or on their deaths, or while an impeach- nt is pending against them, or in case neither should be chosen at the nual election, let the executive power devolve upon the privy council il the office is again filled. By ascertaining in this way the qualifica- :n required from the Governor in point of property, and from the her servants of the state of whoma qualification in point of property required, that ambition which promptsa a man to aspire to any of se offices or places will benefit the state as the public tax he pays will one criterion of his qualification. By electing the Governor in this ianer, he hath the major voice of the people, and bribery or undue luence is impracticable. The privy council have also the major voice the people, as they are chosen bya majority of the representatives: they: also selected from the senate, which it is to be presumed, will be aposed of some of the best men in the state. As a further security inst any inconveniency resulting from the length of time a Governorelection of the privy council, by and out of the legislative body y hold the chair, no man ought to bea Governor more than threeਚ ਡ ਝ уеa362 22. The Essex Resultyears in any six. There ought also, as soon as the circumstances of thestate will admit of it, to be a gradation of officers, to qualify men for theiirespective departments-a rotation also of the senators will prevent anyundue influence a man may acquire, by the long possession of an impor.tant office. After a period of six years let the following rules be observedLet no man be eligible as Governor, (or Lieutenant Governor) unless hehas had a seat in the senate or privy council for two years, or hathformerly been Governor or Lieutenant Governor. Let no man be eligibleas senator, unless he had a seat in the house, senate, or privy council, thepreceeding year-And let one fourth of the senate (which for this purpose is to include the privy council) be annually made ineligible toto thatrank, for two years; and let this fourth part be ascertained by lot. Thislot, together with the provisions just mentioned, will introduce a rotationin the chair, privy council, senate and house: and the state will have a sufficient number of it's members qualified for these important offices,bthe gradation established. These servants of the state should have competent and honourable stipends; not so large, as will enable them traise a fortune at the expence of the industrious classes of the peoplenor so small, that a man must injure his estate by serving the public. Aiinadequate salary would exclude from service, all but the vainly ambtious; and the ambitious man will endeavour to repay himself by attempting measures which will hazard the constitution. These stipendshould be paid out of the public treasury, and the Governor's should bmade certain upon fixed principles, otherwise the legislative body coulstarve him into a state of dependance. There still remain some other officers to be elected-Let the legislativbody choose the delegates for Congress, and the Receiver General anCommissary General, and let each branch have a right to originatenegative the choice.Let the following officers, who may be considered as county officerbe thus elected-Let each county convention every three years choose thSheriff, Coroners, and county Registers; and let that convention annualchoose a county Treasurer, and a deputy Attorney General, to prosectIon behalf of the state at the court of sessions, in the absence of tiAttorney General.Let us also consider in whose hands the power of pardoning shouldlodged. If the legislative body or a branch of it are entrusted with it, t1778 363 same body which made or were concerned in making the law, will excuse the breach of it. This body is so numerous that most offenderswill have some relation or connexion with some of it's members, undue influence for that reason may take place, and if a pardon should be issued improperly, the public blame will fall upon such members, it would not have the weight of a feather; and no conviction upon an mpeachment could follow-The house would not impeach themselves,ind the senators would not condemn the senate. If this power of pardonng is lodged with the Governor and privy council, the number is somall, that all can personally inform themselves of the facts, and mis- nformation will be detected. Their own reputation would guard them igainst undue inffuence, for the censure of the people will hang on theirrecks with the weight of a mill-stone-And impeachments will stare hem in the face, and conviction strike them with terror. Let the powerf pardoning be therefore lodged with the Governor and privy council.The right of convening, adjourning, proroguing, and dissolving the gislative body deserves consideration. The constitution will make prosion for their convention on the last wednesday in May annually Letach branch of the legislative, have power to adjourn itself for two daysLet the legislative body have power to adjourn or prorogue itself toay time within the year. Let the Governor and privy council have ithority to convene them at pleasure, when the public business calls forfor the assembling of the legislative body may often be necessary, revious to the day to which that body had adjourned or prorogued self, as the legislative body when dispersed cannot assemble itself. And prevent any attempts of their votinga continuance of their political istence, let the constitution make provision, that some time in every ar, on or before the wednesday preceeding the last wednesday in May,e Governor shall dissolve them. Before that day, he shall not have wer to do it, without their consent.As the principles which should govern in forming the judicial power ve been already mentioned, a few observations only, are necessary toply those principles.Let the judges of the common law courts, of the admiralty, and pro- e, and the register of probate, be appointed by the Governor and privy uncil; let the stipends of these judges be fixed, and let all those officersAΩ 요n364 22. The Essex Resultbe removeable only for misbehaviour. Let the senate be the judgethat misbehaviour, on impeachment of the house.The committee have now compleated the general out-lines of a conofstitution, which they suppose may be conformable to the principles ofa free republican government-They have not attempted the descriptionof the less important parts of a constitution, as they naturally and obviously are determinable by attention to those principles-Neither dethey exhibit these general out lines, as the only ones which can be consonant to the natural rights of mankind, to the fundamental terms ofthe original social contract, and to the principles of political justice; fothey do not assume to themselves infallibility. To compleat the taskassigned them by this body, this constitution is held up in a generaview, to convince us of the practicability of enjoying a free republicagovernment, in which our natural rights are attended to, in which thoriginal social contract is observed, and in which political justice governsand also to justify us in our objections to the constitution proposed bthe convention of this state, which we have taken the liberty to say iin our apprehension, in some degree deficient in those respects.To balance a large society on republican or general laws, is a work eso great difficulty, that no human genius, however comprehensive, is pehaps able, by the mere dint of reason and reflection, to effect it. Thpenetrating and dispassionate judgments of many must unite in thiwork: experience must guide their labour: time must bring it to pefection and the feeling of inconveniencies must correct the mistakwhich they will probably fall into, in their first trials and experimentThe plan which the preceeding observations were intended to exhitin a general view, is now compleated. The principles of a free repulican form of government have been attempted, some reasons in suppоof them have been mentioned, the out lines of a constitution have beedelineated in conformity to them, and the objections to the formgovernment proposed by the general convention have been stated.This was at least the task enjoined upon the committee, and whethit has been successfully executed, they presume not to determine. Tr.aimed at modelling the three branches of the supreme power in suckmanner, that the government might act with the greatest vigour a1778 365 wisdom, and with the best intentions-They aimed that each of those branches should retaina check upon the others, sufficient to preserve it's ndependence-They aimed that no member of the state should be con rouled by any law, or be deprived of his property, against his consentThey aimed that all the members of the state should enjoy political librty, and that their civil liberties should have equal care taken of themind in fine, that they should be a free and an happy people-The com- nittee are sensible, that the spirit of a free republican constitution, orhe moving power which should give it action, ought to be political irtue, patriotism, and a just regard to the natural rights of mankind.This spirit, if wanting, can be obtaıned only from that Being, who inised the breath of Life into our first parent. The committee have only further to report, that the inhabitants ofne several towns who deputed delegates for this convention, be seriously Ivised, and solemnly exhorted, as they value the political freedom and ippiness of themselves and of their posterity, to convene all the freemen their several towns in town meeting, for this purpose regularly notified,id that they do unanimously vote their disapprobation of the constituon and form of government, framed by the convention of this state;at a regular return of the same be made to the secretary's office, that| may there remaina grateful monument to our posterity of that con- tent, impartial and persevering attachment to political, religious, andil liberty, which actuated their fathers, and in defence of which, theyavely fought, chearfully bled, and gloriously died.The above report being read was accepted.Attest, PETER COFFIN, Chairman.
