Sect. I. What is the power with which the conftitution invefts the crown over countries conquered, or otherwife acquired?Power of making capitulations and treaties of peace, and prefcribing forms of government to the founders of new fettlements, p. 1. Exemplified in the cafe of Ireland, p. 4—of Wales, Berwick, &c. p. 15. Precedents prove the power conftitutional, p. 20. Definition of the term “conftitution,” p. 22. In what fenfe the conftitution of England can be faid to be fixed, p. 24.Sect. II. Can the operations of the whole body of the legiflature be reftrained by any a£l of the crown?Of the king’s feveral capacities, viz. fupreme legiflative, fubordinate legiflative, executive, and procuratorial, p. 26. Capitulations, treaties, and charters granted to original fettlers, are a£ts of the king in his procuratorial capacity, and binding on the whole legiflature, p. 32. Obfcurity thrown on this queftion by the unconftitutional maxims of the Stewart family, p. 38. Pra£tices to be juftified only by thofe maxims, ftill retained, p. 39. Danger of confounding the feveral capacities of the king, p. 45.Sect. III. Is there any other principle in the conftitution to reftrain the operations of the whole body of the legiflature on the particular point of Taxation?Cafe of a country fuppofed to furrender without a capitulation, or of a country fuppofed to be fettled without a charter, p. 48. Powers and exemptions conveyed by capitulations, treaties, and charters, p. 49. Examination of a maxim laid down by Locke, p. 54. Definition of property, p. 55. To pay a tax is not to give up part of our property, p. 56. Taxes are not gifts, p. 58. Are not impofed by confent of all the taxed, or their reprefentatives, p. 60. Reprefentation and taxation not infeparable, p. 67. Advantages enjoyed by Britons from the peculiar relation—CONTENTS.—o them—Houfe of Commons, ftands in—(illegible lines omitted in original)—relation to the Ame—Sect. IV. Summary of the arguments in the matter of right.PART II.Enquiry into the Matter of Fact.Sect. I. What are the privileges granted to the firft fettlers in North America by the Virginian charters?Abftra£t of the firft Virginia charter, p. 86. Of the fecond, p. 94. Of the third Virginia charter, p. 97. Remarks on thefe charters, p. 101.Sect. II. Of the privileges granted by the crown to the people of New England by the firft charter of Maffachufet’s Bay.Abftra£t of it, p. 109. Of the laws made under it.Sect. III. Abftra£t of the charters of Connecticut and Rhode Ifland.Remarks on the three laft charters, p. 124.Sect. IV. Of the further privileges granted by the crown to the New Englanders by the fecond charter of Maffachufet’s Bay.Hiftory of the grant of this charter, p. 129. Abftra£t of it, p. 134. It does not, nor did king William mean that it fhould, exempt the grantees from parliamentary taxation, p. 137.Sect. V. What were the privileges conveyed by the crown to the family of Lord Baltimore, and the people of Maryland, in the charter of Maryland?Abftra£t of it, p. 143. Of the king’s renunciation of the power of taxing, p. 150. Of the power of parliament as to other points, p. 155.Sect. VI. What were the privileges granted by the crown to the inhabitants of Penfylvania by the charter of Penfylvania?Abftra£t of this charter, p. 158. Remarks on it, p. 164.Sect. VII. What power did the parliament exercife over the colonies from their firft eftablifhment to the time of the Commonwealth?A£ls of fupremacy exercifed, p. 167. Of a fuppofed renunciation of that fupremacy, p. 176.CONTENTS.Sect. VIII. What power did the parliament exercife over the colonies from the beginning of the civil war to the reftoration.The a£ls of fupremacy exercifed during this period are pertinent to the prefent queftion. Account of them. Remarks on them, p. 185.Sect. IX. What powers did the parliament exercife under the reftored monarchy?Navigation A£ts, p. 199. Revenue A£t of 25 Car. II. p. 203. A£t of 7 & 8 Will. III. afferting the fupremacy, p. 206. Of Geo. I. p. 210. Of Geo. II. p. 212. Revenue A£ts of Geo. II. in which the Houfe of Commons ufes the technical terms of “give and grant.” Mr. Burke’s remarks on it examined, p. 219. Other a£ts of Geo. II. p. 227.Sect. X. Deference paid by the colonies to the authority of parliament, and to the requifitions of the crown, down to the reign of his prefent majefty.Ufe of examining this queftion, p. 228. Of the deference paid to the authority of parliament, p. 232. Of the deference paid to the requifitions of the crown, p. 240.Sect. XI. Of the condu£t of parliament with refpe£l to the late difturbances.—(summaries of petitions, rejedlions, and adminiftrations)—Account of the Rockingham adminiftration. Mr. Burke’s account of them examined, p. 289. A new adminiftration eftablifhed; a£ts for regulating America and impofing duties on tea, &c. p. 296. How received in the Colonies, p. 304.PART III.Examination of the A£ts paffed by the thirteenth—CONTENTS.Sect. I. Advantages of the periodical renewal of the legiflative body. Ufe which this parliament might have made of them in the American affairs.Sect. II. Proceedings of the firft feffions of the thirteenth parliament.Speech at opening the feffions, p. 314. Motion for documents negatived, p. 316. Papers produced and refolutions formed on them, p. 320. Addrefs to enforce 25 Hen. VIII. with remarks on that ftatute, p. 321. Lord Hillfborough’s letter, and Mr. Burke’s remarks on it, examined, p. 340.Sect. III. Proceedings of the third feffions.Effedts of the letter, p. 345. Speech at opening the feffion, p. 346. Amendments moved to the addrefs, p. 348. Partial repeal of the obnoxious a£ts, p. 352. Proceedings of the malcontents at home, p. 354. Motion rejedted, p. 356.Sect. IV. Proceedings of the feventh feffions.Meffage and papers fent by his majefty, p. 362. A£ts paffed thereupon, p. 367.Sect. V. A£t for fhutting up the port of Bofton.Abftra£t of the a£t, p. 370. It was paffed on fufficient evidence, p. 373. Objection to its involving the innocent with the guilty anfwered, p. 379.Sect. VI. A£t for the impartial adminiftration of juftice in the cafe of perfons queftioned for any a£l done in the execution of the laws in Maffachufet’s Bay.Abftra£t of the a£t, p. 393. The a£t vindicated, p. 395.Sect. VII. The a£t for the better regulating the government of Maffachufet’s Bay.The government of this province ftood in need of reformation, p. 404. Conftitution of the council, p. 406. Appointment of judges, p. 417. Of juries and fheriffs, p. 421. Regulations of public meetings, p. 428.Sect. VIII. The Quebec A£t.Abftra£t of it, p. 438. Eftablifhment of the Roman Catholic religion vindicated, p. 450. Defeds in not explaining what is meant by the king’s fupremacy, p. 457. In not allowing the marriage of priefts, and providing for the gradual fuppreffion of monafteries, p. 461. In not exempting proteftants from the payment of tythes, p. 466. Of the eftablifhment of the laws of Canada in civil caufes, p. 468. Of the confirmation of the criminal law of England, p. 476. Of the legiflative council, p. 479. Plan of reconciliation, p. 483.PREFACE.The oppofite and irreconcilable charadters beftowed by different perfons on the laft parliament had long perplexed me. To the virulent effufions of maddening fadlion, to the abufive bead-roll of cant fentences echoed from inferior quarters, I paid little heed; but when grave magiftrates, in addreffes to the throne; when famous orators, within the walls of the houfe itfelf, reprefented parliament as the betrayer, not the guardian of the rights of the people; when others as loudly exalted its wifdom, firmnefs, and independence; it then became at once more interefting, and more difficult to decide what was the chara£ter that parliament deferved.The intereft which every citizen muft take in fuch a queftion was much increafed by the very firft appearances of the election that fucceeded. At firft fight it appeared that a large majority of the fame members would be returned to the next parliament. If the thirteenth parliament then deferved one half of the reproaches with which it had been fo plentifully laden, we might exped before the end of the fourteenth to be in that fort of ftate, in which it would behove every prudent and every honeft citizen to lay afide all confidence in eledlors or eleded, and take the charge of his fecurity into his own hands.To put my mind at eafe, I determined to fit down and examine coolly the principal tranfa£tions of that affembly; and, without borrowing my opinion either from its lifted advocates, or defamers, form my judgment from its own records.Of the refult of that examination, what is here, with all due deference, fubmitted to the public, is a part. In fubmitting it, however, I would wifh to obviate two objections to which this attempt may feem at firft fight liable. Some will cenfure it as indecent; for what can be more indecent, if we may believe a celebrated commentator*, than for a private man to pafs judgment on the a£ts of the legiflature?—Others may flight it as unfinifhed.In anfwer to the firft charge, that of indecency, I would afk whether it be indecent to examine, to reflect? Now every man who reflects at all, muft either approve, or difapprove, or fufpend his judgment. If he approves, it is becaufe the thing approved of is conformable to his own ideas: if he difapproves, it is becaufe it is repugnant to his own ideas: if he keeps himfelf in fufpenfe, it is becaufe it is partly conformable, and partly repugnant. There appears to me to be no more indecency in one of thefe operations than in another. If it be thought arrogant to exprefs that opinion, I have only to fay, that even in the moft defpotic governments it is allowed to fpeak freely of deceafed fovereigns.—In France it is permitted; in Egypt it was ordained. In this country, which fome are pleafed to call free, though not pleafed, we find, with the only means by which it can be kept fo—in this country a diffolved parliament is a deceafed fovereign.—In Egypt, a defpotic government, the cuftom of pronouncing orations at the embalming of their kings was eftablifhed as a means of inciting the reigning prince to reform the errors, fupply the defects, and perfect the good defigns of his predeceffor.—Let thefe Remarks be confidered in the fame light.Should the end propofed by them be in any degree attained, I fhall have the merit of having ferved my country.—Should it totally fail, there is no demerit in the endeavour.The motive I can be fure of: it is of the pureft kind;—the wifh of doing good;—unconnected with any party; too proud to be dependent on any; of too little confequence to be fought by any, I fpeak but as I feel.—Wherever I think parliament has a£ted as the faithful guardian of our rights and liberties, I fhall gratefully applaud:—where I think it has facrificed them,—I fhall as freely cenfure. For this I plead my motto in excufe.To the fecond charge, that of offering but a part of a work to the public, I can only fay, that this part is all that is now ready:—that it takes in the whole of the particular fubje£t it treats of; and that this fubje£t would form a whole of itfelf:—it is independent of, and but accidentally connected with any other:—if this part is tolerably well executed, I believe the public will forgive me for not having troubled them with more.I believe this phrafe is borrowed from a famous orator.—But I may venture to fay, that we attach very different ideas to the fame figns.THE DESIGN.The fubje£t of the a£ts here confidered was to fecure the dependence of the colonies upon the mother-country: a more important one has feldom come before a parliament, few in which greater, or more complicated interefts were involved:—moft certainly it called for the whole wifdom of the wifeft among them*.A fubje£t in which not only the general interefts of fo many individuals are fo deeply concerned, muft have produced many appeals to the public. Every man thought himfelf at liberty, fome thought themfelves engaged, to give their opinions; much novelty, therefore, will not be expected.My chief aim will be, to colle£t the various arguments as they lie fcattered in different writers, to reduce them each to its proper clafs, to prefent them to the reader in that point of view, in which alone they are applicable to the queftions we are to examine.In the difcuffion of thefe queftions we fhall reap little benefit from the dogmatic tone of general affertion, from the ingenuity of metaphor, or from the pompous difplay of thofe gratuitous and acknowledged truths, which being generally received, are little doubted, and being little doubted have been rarely proved. To many of the latter clafs one general anfwer would fuffice. “To be prejudiced is always to be weak.”What avails it to tell us, that “a colony is to the mother-country as a member to the body, deriving its a£tion and its ftrength from the general principle of vitality?” The colonifts may fmile perhaps at the pomp with which the hackneyed metaphor is reproduced; but they will add, “If you think us incurably tainted, fubmit us to amputation; you will find we have a principle of vitality within ourfelves; we fhall not perifh like a putrid limb.”What avails it to tell us, that “the juft, wife, and neceffary conftitutional fuperiority of Great Britain over her colonies fhould be maintained unimpaired, and undiminifhed?” Not one American has yet denied the pofition.What avails it to tell us, that the fuperiority of Great Britain over her colonies is not to annihilate the liberties of the Americans, is not “to put them in a fituation not becoming a freeman?” Thefe truths, what courtier is hardy enough to difpute?If you mean to inftru£t us, go one ftep farther; teach us to apply each our own maxim to our own cafe: define this conftitutional fuperiority of Great Britain: teach us to reconcile Britifh fuperiority with American liberty. This is not a queftion of the fchools, to be decided by random maxims, or apophthegms of the fages.What avails it to cite detached unconnected opinions from writers on our laws? This is not a queftion before a common court of juftice, acknowledged to be competent by both the contending parties. On this queftion the opinions of judges and counfel have no doubt their weight; but will the Americans allow them to be decifive? If they would, with all due deference to fo formidable a body, the writings of lawyers are, like two-edged weapons, they cut at friend and foe. Whoever is acquainted with them will be ready enough to acknowledge, that there is not in the world a more fluctuating, we may boldly fay, a more fallacious guide.There is no maxim fo unconftitutional, no two maxims fo contradictory, that I would not undertake to prove from the writings or opinions of fome of them.It may ferve the purpofe of party but not of truth, to mutilate or to mifapply more refpe£table authorities.Hard words may ferve to fhew a man’s fpleen, but they ferve little to fortify his opinion. Virulent and abufive language may carry off a fit of paffion, but will neither perfuade nor convince.The only method of determining fairly on the condu£t of the late parliament in this important bufinefs, will be to enquire—I. As to the point of Right.As to the crown alone, what is the power with which the conftitution invefts that branch of the legiflature over countries conquered, or otherwife acquired?As to the whole body of the legiflature, whether its operations can be reftrained by any a£ts of the afore-named branch of it.Again as to the whole body of the legiflature, whether on the particular point of taxation there be any other principle in the conftitution to reftrain its operations?II. As to the point of Fa£t.What were the privileges originally granted by the crown to the colonies?What power preceding parliaments exercifed over them.When thefe queftions are fairly difcuffed, and not before, we may venture to give our opinions.III. On the merits of the proceedings of the laft parliament.Whether they were confiftent with the fpirit of the conftitution.Whether they were confiftent with the didlates of found policy.To enter on the two laft fubje£ts of enquiry before the other points are fully fettled, would at leaft be prepofterous. It would be to begin where we ought to end.If the power vefted in the crown, over conquered or acquired countries, be circumbfcribed within certain bounds, by certain acknowledged rules, all a£ts done in the exercife of that power, muft be meafured by thofe rules, on their conformity to which their validity will depend.If the a£ts done in the exercife of that power do not bind or reftrain parliament, it is in vain to cite thofe a£ts. On this fuppofition charters are ufelefs parchments, becaufe ineffe£tive.If there be any principle in our conftitution, by which the Americans can claim an exemption from parliamentary taxation, then too charters will be found but ufelefs parchments, becaufe unneceffary.If there be no fuch principle, then allowing to charters their utmoft force, the colonifts can plead no exemption from thence, till they have fhewn it to be there either fpecified, or of neceffity implied.If different interpretations be put on the fame grants by the contending parties, we muft then appeal to ufage to decide between them.If the proceedings of the laft parliament be queftioned, we muft exa£tly know the fituation in which the preceding parliaments had left it.PART I.INQUIRY INTO THE MATTER OF RIGHT.Sect. I.What is the power with which the Conftitution invefts the Crown over countries conquered or otherwife acquired?In examining this queftion, fome propofitions may perhaps be advanced which are allowed on all hands: thefe, if any fuch there be, require no proof; it will be fufficient to ftate them. If difputed propofitions are advanced, we muft appeal to hiftory and precedents in fupport of them. Hiftory and precedents are here the moft unexceptionable proofs.If the king has for a long fucceffion of years invariably exercifed certain powers over conquered, or acquired countries; if the Englifh or Britifh parliament has looked on, and allowed the exercife of thefe powers; fuch a tacit confent is equivalent to a pofitive inftitution; is a conftant a£t of recognition. Precedents then, if uncontradided by precedents of an oppofite nature, are conclufive.Let us begin with the cafe of conquered countries. No man difputes, that the conftitution has vefted in the king the power of making war, and making peace. He may grant what terms of capitulation he pleafes: he may make what articles of peace he fees fit. This is allowed on all hands.Terms of capitulation, articles of peace, ought to be underftood in their plain and natural fenfe; ought to be ftri£tly, and religioufly obferved. This too is allowed on all hands.Should the king grant improper terms of capitulation, fhould he fign improper articles of peace, the confequences might be fatal to himfelf: they ought to be fo to his minifters, and advifers. But ftill the people capitulating, or treating, ought either to be maintained in the rights and privileges which had been granted them, or reftored to the fituation they were in at the time of capitulating or treating.The fame, I apprehend, holds true of acquired countries—of fettlements, made either in countries vacant, as was the cafe of Barbadoes; or in countries purchafed of, or ceded by the original inhabitants, as was the cafe of Ireland, and of our colonies in North America.It appears, that the conftitution has vefted in the king the power of granting fuch forms of government to the founders of new fettlements, as he judges to be beft for the purpofes of the fettlements; in the fame manner as it invefts him with the power of granting fuch terms of capitulation, fuch articles of peace to a conquered country, as he judges beft for the fecurity of the conqueft.Let us confider the cafe of Ireland. “An odious fugitive (fays Dr. Leland) driven from his province by faction and revenge, gains a few adventurers in Wales, whom youthful valour, or diftrefs of fortune, led into Ireland.” Thefe adventurers embarked under the fan£lion of a general licence from Henry II. king of England. They affifted Dermod, king of Lemfter, in the reduction of his revolted fubje£ts. He, in return for this aid, invefted them with divers towns and diftri£ts. This I think can hardly be called a conqueft; it was a fettlement granted by a friend, and not a conqueft made upon an enemy.Soon afterwards Henry went over in perfon to Ireland. He claimed the whole of the ifland. His claim was founded on a grant from the late pope Adrian. The adventurers refigned into the hands of Henry the diftri£ts ceded to them by Dermod. To the Englifh fettlers in thefe diftri£ts, Henry, by his own authority, without the intervention of the Englifh parliament, gave the full enjoyment of the Englifh government there, in their new fettlements. With the native chieftains, who acknowledged themfelves his tributaries, he made a folemn compact.He granted, by his own authority, the city of Dublin to the inhabitants of Briftol, with all the liberties and free cuftoms, in this new fettlement, which they had enjoyed at Briftol.By his own authority he granted the town of Waterford to the Oxonians, with the like enjoyment of the laws of England.The privileges of the Englifh law, fo much at leaft as confifted in the enjoyment there in Ireland of the fame conftitution as the Englifh fubje£ts enjoyed in England, were fucceffively granted to the principal of the Irifh lords, as they fubmitted to the king.Some time afterward we fee Henry, of his own mere motion and power, granting the lordfhip of Ireland to his fon John. It was done (fays the hiftorian) in “confilio generali: coram epifcopis, et principibus terræ.” But it does not appear, according to Dr. Leland, that they a£ted as advifers and counfellors, much lefs as co-legiflators; they were purely and fimply witneffes to the a£t. Their prefence was required, not to add authority, but mere publicity to the grant. In confequence of this grant, John ever afterwards, during the lives of his father and brother, and before his acceffion to the throne of England, ufed the title of lord of Ireland.At the fame time Henry, of his own authority, made other grants:—of the kingdom of Cork, as it was called, to Milo de Cogan and Robert Fitz-Stephens; of the kingdom of Limerick to Herebert Fitz-Herebert; and fo of other diftri£ts to others, to hold of the king, and of his fon John.In the year 1210, John, now king of England, arrives in Ireland. He eftablifhes courts of judicature in Dublin. He divides his acquifitions into different counties; appoints to each its fheriffs and officers; and, affifted by lawyers of both kingdoms, caufes a regular code and charter of laws, upon the model of thofe in England, to be drawn up, and eftablifhed for the common benefit of the land. This charter was confirmed by the king’s feal, was depofited in the Exchequer of Dublin, for the dire£tion of the judges, and the information of all his fubje£ts. All this, it feems, was done by his own authority; without afking the advice, or confent of his parliament.Henry the third had no fooner renewed and confirmed the Great Charter, granted by John his father to his Englifh fubje£ts, than he tranfmitted a duplicate of it to Ireland for the benefit of his Irifh fubje£ts, “with thofe alterations only (fays Dr. Leland) which the local neceffities of Ireland required.”This too was done by the authority of the king alone. By his own authority Henry extended fome of the provifions, if not all, contained in the ftatute (or as it fhould be called the ordinance) of Merton, to his land of Ireland.Edward the firft, by his own authority, after conference and deliberation, not with his parliament, but with his council, extended the benefit of the Englifh laws to other fettlements within the king’s land, or as the patent expreffes it, “belonging to the community of Ireland.”It does not appear that any confent of the Englifh parliament was taken for the paffing of this patent; but there is extant an inftru£tion to the governor, dire£ting him to take the confent “of the people of that land (the part of Ireland within the Englifh pale) or at leaft of the prelates and nobles.”Laftly, by an ordinance of Edward III. an Irifh parliament was inftituted, and regulated according to the inftitution of the parliament of England. “By this parliament (fays the royal ordinance) we will that our affairs, and thofe of our land, be, agreeably to juftice, law, cuftom and reafon, faithfully treated, debated, difcuffed, and finally determined.”This ordinance completely eftablifhed that form of government in Ireland, which had been promifed to the firft fettlers. And from the time of the firft promife, during all the fucceffive gradations to this its complete eftablifhment, the king a£ted alone, by his own authority, without any participation with, or oppofition from the Englifh parliament. Nor is there any marks to fhew that the Englifh parliament confidered any of thefe different grants of their fucceffive kings, otherwife than as legal. Nor was any objection made to this laft ordinance; or to the power thereby conveyed to this new ere£ted parliament. Yet a trying occafion foon prefented itfelf. The Englifh had often and liberally contributed to fupport the king in his purfuits in Ireland. They at laft grew uneafy under this burthen. But how did they condu£t themfelves? Under the preffure of this uneafinefs what meafures did the Englifh parliament purfue? They expreffed their uneafinefs; they remonftrated againft fupporting this burthen; they folicited the king to make a ftri£t enquiry into the deficiencies of the royal revenues in that realm; but they did not venture either to call the fuppofed delinquents to account, or to fupply the deficiencies by affeffing any levy, by their own authority, on the fubje£ts of Ireland.Edward on his part did not apply to his Englifh parliament to compel his Irifh fubje£ts to contribute their quota to the fupport of their own government. He fummoned an Irifh parliament to meet him in England. The fummons was obeyed, though not without relu£tance; but not without a faving of their rights; but not without declaring this to be an a£t of favour, the voluntary effedl of their reverence to the king.Thefe are the feveral a£ts exercifed by the kings of England alone, over the Irifh nation, from the fettlement of the firft colony to the full eftablifhment of the Irifh parliament. I have been the more particular in ftating them, as apprehending that of all the poffeffions acquired by England, no other was acquired in a manner fo much refembling the mode of our acquifitions in North America. Ireland can no more be called a conqueft than North America. Ireland was a colony. The firft fettlements in America were yielded by the inhabitants to a fet of adventurers, fubje£ts to the crown of England: the firft fettlements in Ireland were yielded by the lawful proprietor, to a fet of adventurers fubje£ts to the crown of England. The fettlements in America were granted to the fettlers as already belonging to the king: thofe in Ireland were yielded by the fettlers to the king, and regranted by him. Certain conditions were granted to the firft adventurers in America; certain conditions were granted to the firft adventurers in Ireland. The fettlements in America were extended; partly by driving out the natives, partly by compa£ts with the natives.—So were the fettlements in Ireland.I know of no law, or received maxim, by which the power of the crown has been in this inftance abridged. And therefore whatever power the king could conftitutionally exert over Ireland, the fame he could exert over America. Whatever rights he could conftitutionally grant to Ireland, the fame he could grant to America. I do not now mean to pufh the parallel farther. The prefent queftion is not whether he did a£tually grant the fame privileges to the one as to the other. That queftion will meet us in its proper place. What I contend for now is only this:—That the terms on which the king got poffeffion of America were fimilar to the terms on which he got poffeffion of Ireland; that therefore if he had a conftitutional right of conveying certain powers, and granting certain exemptions to the fettlers in Ireland, he had the fame conftitutional right of conveying certain powers, and granting certain exemptions, to the fettlers in America.If from Ireland we turn our eyes to Wales, we fhall fee the king exerting the fame power. “What is called the ftatute of Wales (12 Edward I. A.D. 1284.) (fays Mr. Barrington) is certainly no more than regulations made by the king in council for the government of Wales.”This a£t of the king appears to have been made upon the fulleft information. Some of the laws and cuftoms, which prevailed in Wales before the conquefts of Edward, are retained; others altered; others entirely abolifhed.The preamble to the ordinance fpeaks of Wales as of a fief of the crown.—Edward knew it was a conqueft—“And as conqueror (fays Mr. Harrington) had a right to make ufe of his own words in the preamble to his own a£t.”—Had it been a fief, this ordinance would have been illegal.—“For he never pretended (fays lord Mansfield) that he could make laws to bind any part of the realms without the affent of parliament.”Berwick was a conquered diftri£t.—Edward the firft, in whofe reign it was conquered, by his own authority, confirmed to it the laws and ufages, by which it had been governed before its reduction.—This charter was confirmed, or renewed, or extended by different kings, from Edward to the time of James, when Berwick was incorporated into the kingdom of England.New York was conquered from the Dutch. Charles II. granted it to the duke of York, to hold of the crown. The form of its conftitution, and political government, was entirely changed, and a new one prefcribed by the king’s letters patent.Jamaica, at the time of the Reftoration, had loft all its Spanifh inhabitants.—Charles invited new fettlers by proclamation; he promifed them prote£tion; he granted them lands:—he appointed the conftitution, and political government of the ifland:—firft a governor and council; then a governor, council, and affembly.Nor was this power of the king over conquered, or acquired countries, either difputed by the nation, or relinquifhed by the crown even after the Revolution.At the time of the Revolution the charter of the New Englanders flood vacated by a judgment of the court of king’s bench. They petitioned king William for the renewal of it: whilft the petition was yet under confideration, the king enquired “whether, without breach of law, he might appoint a governor over New England?” To which the lord chief juftice, and other lords of the council, anfwered, “That (whatever might be the merits of the caufe) inafmuch as the charter of New England flood vacated by a judgment againft them, it was in the king’s power to put them under what form of government he thought beft for them.”In Gibraltar and Minorca the king not only prefcribed the firft form of government, but continues to this hour to exercife every a£t of legiflation.From all thefe precedents, one point is clear,—and that point is all we at prefent want:—that the conftitution, as it ftands at this hour, has invefted the king with, and that the king has conftantly exercifed, the right of prefcribing the form of the conftitution and political government in all our conquefts, and in all our fettlements.It is not fair to afk us for the precife written law, which invefts him with this right.—The non-exiftence of fuch a written law, does not prove the non-exiftence of the right. Many of the rights of individuals depend upon cuftom:—many of the rights of each of the branches of the legiflature depend likewife upon cuftom.In this cafe the cuftom is invariable, uncontradided by any oppofite precedent.The parliament has always acquiefced in it; and where is the difference between the exprefs will, and a permiffive will, of parliament, thus circumftanced; where the right has been fo long exercifed on one fide, and acquiefced in on the other? Could greater, or other expectations, have been raifed in the colonies by a pofitive than by this tacit declaration of the acquiefcence of parliament? Would it not be as unjuft to deftroy the expectations raifed by this tacit, as the expectations raifed by any pofitive declaration?The parliament, no doubt, might prefcribe bounds to the exercife of this right in the king as to future conquefts or fettlements;—but as no bounds are hitherto fet to it, the power he exercifes in prefcribing forms of government to countries already conquered, or fettled, is a power that feems warranted by the conftitution.For what do we mean by the conftitution? Is it not that affemblage of inftitutions and cuftoms which compofe the general fyftem, according to which the feveral powers in the ftate are diftributed?I fay cuftoms as well as inftitutions;—for, I repeat it again, it is upon cuftom that a great part of our political as well as of our civil government depends.Not that we are hence to conclude, that the conftitution is unalterable, or that any power in it is not liable to be put under, or reftrained by, fuch other controuls and checks, as the wifdom of the prefent or future parliaments may adopt.The Americans have indeed difcovered,—“that in all free ftates the conftitution is fixed”—that is, as the fequel explains it, unalterable:—“the fupreme legiflative power of the ftate (they tell us) derives its authority from the conftitution:” —they then afk us with an air of triumph,—“If that power can overleap the bounds of the conftitution, without fubverting its own foundation?”I really do not know what thefe gentlemen mean by the conftitution;—for after all my refearches, I never could find out the immutable laws of nature, in which they are fo converfant; and to which they refer us, as the proper ftandard by which to try the validity of a£ts of parliament. But if the conftitution means, as I fuppofe it to mean, the affemblage of inftitutions and cuftoms, by which the different powers in the ftate are diftributed; then, fo far is the legiflative power from deriving all its validity from the conftitution, that the conftitution itfelf is in great part created by the legiflative power;—then it is not true, that the conftitution is fo fixed, as never to be changed.Moft certainly the Englifh conftitution has not always been fixed. It often has been changed. It has been changed by parliament.—To thefe changes we owe our prefent liberty. Suppofe a greater degree of liberty to be poffible, is the fame authority incompetent to make thofe changes, by which fo defireable an objedl may be attained?No doubt the Englifh conftitution is more fixed, that is, lefs liable to change, than the conftitution of any other country, ancient or modern.—No doubt this is a very eminent advantage.—But whence arifes this advantage? From the divifion, not from the impotence, of the legiflative power; from the difficulty of uniting the different branches in any fcheme of alteration, not from their inability to effedl alterations when they are united. Let them be once united, and you may fay of them as truly as of any other legiflature, “Elle change la conftitution comme Dieu crea la lumiere.”In this inftance therefore, as well as in any other, parliament may change the conftitution, by abridging or controlling the power of the king. But till it is abridged or controlled, the power itfelf and the exercife of it are furely conftitutional.Sect. II.Can the operations of the whole body of the legiflature be reftrained by any a£t of the Crown?To anfwer this queftion it will be neceffary to ftate, and diftinguifh, the feveral capacities in which the king may be confidered as a£ting.The king gives his affent to a bill propofed to him by the two houfes of parliament. The bill becomes a law. That is, a command concerning forts of a£tions; addreffed either to all the fubje£ts of the realm in general, or to forts of fubje£ts. Here the king a£ts in his fupreme legiflative capacity. It is legiflative, for the power of legiflation is the power of iffuing commands concerning forts of a£tions. It is fupreme, becaufe it is derived from, dependent on, no other power.No a£t of the king in this capacity can be applied to the prefent queftion. He a£ts here as a conftituent part of parliament. His confent to a bill is not fo much the exercife of any pofitive power, as the non-exercife of a negative power. The initiative, that is, the power of putting the legiflative in motion, is the function of the other conftituent parts of parliament. To the king is referved only the tribunitial power, the power of negation, of reje£ling what he does not approve.The king iffues a proclamation. This too may be a command concerning forts of a£tions, addreffed to forts of perfons. Such a command is an a£t of legiflation. Therefore here too the king a£ts in a legiflative capacity. The power he exercifes here is called a power of fubordinate legiflation. For though the command be concerning forts of a£tions, and addreffed to forts of perfons, yet thefe forts of a£tions are comprifed in a more general fort, concerning which a command has been iffued by that legiflative power, which is called the fupreme.The circumftances under which, and the forts of perfons to whom thefe commands of the fubordinate legiflation are to be addreffed, are fpecially pointed out by the fupreme legiflation. In a word, the will of the fubordinate legiflation is dire£ted as to its objedl, circumbfcribed as to its exercife, and controllable as to its effedts, by the fupreme legiflation.No a£t of the king in this capacity can be applied to the prefent queftion.The king iffues a command concerning individual a£tions, addreffed to individual perfons. That is, he commands individual perfons, each comprifed within a fort of perfons, already defigned by the legiflature, to perform certain particular a£tions, each comprifed within a fort of a£tions already commanded to be done by that fort of perfons. Here the king a£ts in his executive capacity.Clearly no a£t of the king in this capacity can be applied to the prefent queftion.The king grants a capitulation, or makes a treaty. In what capacity does he a£t then?He does not a£t in his fupreme legiflative capacity. He never a£ts in that capacity but in conjun£tion with the other conftituent parts of the parliament. No command is iffued; nor are the perfons, whom he has in contemplation in this capacity, the forts of perfons to whom, nor the a£tions, the forts of a£tions concerning which, his right of iffuing a command is acknowledged.He does not a£t either in his fubordinate legiflative, or in his executive capacity. They prefuppofe a more general command concerning the fame a£tions and perfons.What does he do then? He makes a compa£t. He plights the faith of the nation to the obfervance of that compa£t. He a£ts as fole agent, as fole reprefentative of the whole legiflature. He is invefted with a full difcretionary power, to be ufed as he thinks beft, and moft conducive to the benefit of the whole.This certainly is the exercife of a very different power from thofe which are exerted in either of his other capacities. The capacity itfelf then is different; no name has been found for it, unlefs that general undefined one of prerogative. But though no name has been invented, the thing exifts, and ought to have a name; let us call it his procuratorial capacity.The powers which he exercifes in this capacity, this agency, this reprefentation, are not perhaps derived from any pofitive a£t of the legiflature: they are derived from cuftom, from the fame fource as moft of the powers of the other conftituent parts of the ftate are derived.Had this plain and obvious diftin£lion of the different capacities in which the king may be confidered as a£ting, been fufficiently attended to, much ufelefs argument on the prefent fubje£t had been fpared.When the king a£ts in his procuratorial capacity, when he grants a capitulation, or makes a treaty, there is no conflid between different and contending branches of the fovereignty. It is not the executive power that binds the legiflative; nor a part of the legiflative that binds the whole. But the legiflature is bound by its own conftitutional agent and reprefentative.A capitulation is granted at the beginning of a war. It is ftipulated, that till a definitive treaty of peace, the laws of the conquered country fhall in all points continue in full force. The war lafts twenty years. Will any man pretend that the parliament has a conftitutional right of infringing this ftipulation? Of changing, during this interval, the laws of the conquered country? Surely not. For no one difputes but that all the articles of a capitulation are to be religioufly obferved.A definitive treaty is figned. The country is yielded to Great Britain. One article of the treaty is, that the laws of defcent and fucceffion fhall remain inviolate, fuch as they were before the conqueft. Will any man fay that the parliament can infringe this article? Surely not. For all the articles of a peace are to be religioufly obferved.Another article of the treaty is, that the mode of government, which obtained before the conqueft in the conquered country, fhall ftill obtain after the conqueft. In confequence of this agreement all alterations in the old laws, all additions to them, are to be made by the chief executive magiftrate, with the advice of his council*. Is the parliament bound by this article? Certainly it is. This too is its own a£t, for it is the a£t of its own avowed conftitutional agent.Let us fee how far this reafoning is applicable to acquired countries.A number of men, fubje£ts of the realm of Great Britain, affociate, with the defign of peopling and cultivating a derelict country; or of purchafing from the natives, or acquiring by fome other means, a tra£t of land thinly inhabited, and ill cultivated. They apply to the king for a charter. The king grants it. Now in what capacity can the king be confidered as a£ting when he grants this charter?Plainly, he does not a£t in his fupreme legiflative capacity, nor in his fubordinate legiflative, nor in his executive capacities.Every reafon affigned above, in the cafe of his granting a capitulation, or figning a treaty, is applicable to the prefent cafe of granting a charter. By a charter I mean only an original charter, granted to new fettlers.He a£ts then, when he grants fuch a charter, in the fame capacity as when he grants a capitulation, or makes a treaty. He a£ts in his procuratorial capacity.In fa£t, to grant a capitulation, and to grant fuch a charter, are a£ts of the very fame nature. Both are compa£ts, to both the faith of the nation is plighted.When the king grants a capitulation what does he? He fays to the enemy, “Submit yourfelves to the power of Great Britain, and I, the agent, the reprefentative of the fovereignty of Great Britain, will, in the name and by the authority of that fovereignty, affure to you fuch and fuch conditions.”What does he elfe when he grants a charter? “Go, fays he to the fubje£ts, poflefs yourfelves of this country; people it, cultivate it, fubmit it to the power of your country, and I, the agent, the reprefentative of your fovereign, will reward your labours by the affurance of fuch and fuch conditions.” Can any reafon be affigned why the faith of the nation plighted to an enemy, by the avowed conftitutional agent and reprefentative of the nation, fhould be deemed facred; and the fame faith plighted to a fubje£t by the fame agent, and reprefentative, fhould not be deemed equally facred?We may then, I think, fafely conclude, that in granting a charter the king a£ts in the fame capacity as when he grants a capitulation; that the one a£t is juft as conftitutional, juft as valid as the other; that the terms of the one are to be as facredly obferved as the terms of the other: that if either of them do in any refpe£t reftrain the parliament from exercifing certain a£ts of its fupreme power over the conquered or acquired country, the parliament is bound by that reftraint, fo long as the inhabitants of the conquered or acquired country adhere to the conditions on which the capitulation or charter was granted; but that to all other purpofes they are fubje£t to the fupreme power of parliament, and can by no after a£t of the crown be releafed from that fubje£tion. For the one great condition on which the capitulation or the charter is granted is, that the conquered or acquired country becomes fubje£t of the realm of Great Britain.The unconftitutional maxims adopted by the Stuart family, threw no fmall obfcurity on this queftion. They were wont to confider all conquered or acquired countries as belonging to the king alone; as being part of his foreign dominions, in the fame manner as Gafcony or Normandy, and as fubje£t therefore to the authority of the king alone. Charles I. afferted this exclufive authority in a letter to the fpeaker of the houfe of commons.After the Reftoration, this idea was, in part at leaft, abandoned; and the countries acquired, whether by conqueft or colonifation, began to be confidered as parts of, or belonging to the realm.Still however the line between refpe£tive powers of the king and parliament over them were far from being precifely drawn. It was far from being fixed, in what capacity the king a£ted when he granted charters.The idea of a diftin£t fovereignty in the king over the colonies, unconne£ted with, and independent of the parliament, was indeed apparently given up. But many of the pra£tices, which are to be juftified only by that idea, were ftill retained.I fhall only mention two. The firft is, the giving to the king in council the power of hearing and determining, in dernier refort, all caufes arifing in the colonies. This regulation was a confequence of confidering the colonies as part of the king’s foreign dominions. Appeals lay in Normandy to the duke in council. They lie at prefent from Jerfey, Guernfey, &c. to the king, as duke of Normandy. But if the colonies are part of the realm, fuch appeal is unconftitutional.This is not only unconftitutional, but it is againft an exprefs law. For by the a£t, 10 Cha. I. c. 10. for regulating the privy council, and taking away the ftar-chamber, it is faid (fed. iii.) “that the council table hath of late affumed unto itfelf a power to intermeddle in civil caufes, and matters only of private intereft between party and party, &c. &c. By which great and manifold mifchiefs have arifen.” For remedy, the a£t not only abolifhes the ftar-chamber, and the jurifdi£tion of feveral other courts ere£ted on the fame model, (fefl. iii. and iv.) but likewife declares “that neither his majefty, nor his privy council have, or ought to have any jurifdi£tion, &c. by Englifh bill, &c. to determine, or difpofe of lands, &c. of any of the fubje£ts of this kingdom,” (fed. v.) Now are not all the colonies parcels of this kingdom? And if fo, is not a judicial power thus exercifed by the king in council over the colonies, exerted in the teeth of an a£t of parliament?By a provifion in 6 Anne, ch. 6. the two privy councils of the two kingdoms are confolidated into one; which privy council is to have the fame powers as the privy council of England lawfully had before the union, and none other. Colonies were now eftablifhed. Yet here no power of appeal is given to the king in council.In truth, the conftitution is fo totally a ftranger to this power affumed by the king in council over the colonies, that it has left him in a ftate of utter debility, uninvefted with any coercive power to enforce the execution of his judgments. Of this debility a caufe, at this moment depending in one of our colonies, afforded a ftriking proof. An order was fent to expedite it. This order produced the fame effedl on the judges as an equal quantity of blank paper. And as if fimple difobedience were not enough, they treated it with fcorn.The fecond pra£tice, which iffues from the fame fource, and is equally unconftitutional, is the ftanding dire£tion iffued by the king to governors. They are authorifed to exercife this power, not only according to their firft commiffions, and the terms of the ufual charters, but “according to inftru£lions they receive from time to time from the privy council.” Here the executive power takes upon itfelf to controul the legiflative power, or what has been done or granted by the king in his procuratorial capacity. Nothing more than a fubordinate power of legiflation. It is a new fovereignty over an old one.Another miftake, which has been conftantly perfifted in ever fince the Revolution, is attributing to the king in his—[text in your excerpt ends mid-thought here]—When the province of New England had forfeited its charter, king William granted it a fecond. And it was declared in council that he had a right to do fo.From the queftion of the king, and from the anfwer of the council, it is clear that both king and council confidered the granting of the original charter, and the granting of this fecond charter, to be a£ts of the fame power, exercifed by the king in one and the fame capacity. For all this, it appears pretty evident from what we have before laid down, that though called by the fame name, they are a£ts of different powers, exercifed by the king in different capacities.The original charters granted to new fettlers appear to be treaties, capitulations, compa£ts, made by the king in his procuratorial capacity. But thefe charters once forfeited, the fettlers are in all points fubje£t to the power of parliament. They are in the cafe of countries furrendering without terms, or fettlers emigrating without a charter. A fubfequent charter is no treaty; no compa£t; is not granted by the king in his procuratorial capacity. It contains only privileges, granted in his fubordinate legiflative capacity; and thefe privileges are not only revocable by any fubfequent commands of the fupreme legiflature, but are no farther valid than as they are conformable to fuch of its commands as are now a£tually fubfifting.This is not a mere difpute of words; the diftin£tion is important in its confequences.Whatever the king does in his fubordinate legiflative capacity, is not only fubje£t to the controul of the fupreme legiflative power; that is, to that body, of which he is an effential part, on the proceedings of which he can put an abfolute negative; but befides this controul there is another in the judicial power, to which, I apprehend, what he does in his procuratorial capacity is not always fubje£t.—When he grants charters, or makes treaties in virtue of this power, no court can judge of the propriety of them. They are facred to them as a£ts of parliament. If he makes regulations in his fubordinate legiflative capacity, the courts of juftice are judges of their legality. They can tell whether the regulations are founded on original capitulations, or charters, on the laws allowed to be in force in the refpe£tive colonies, or in the general laws of the empire; and if they are not founded on any of thefe, the courts can give relief.Farther, if the grant of capitulations, or charters, and all the other and fubfequent regulations, made by the king in conquered or acquired countries, are made in virtue of one and the fame power, then they are all, or none, controllable by the fupreme legiflation.—Of two confequences one would follow: Either the king is always abfolute in conquered or acquired countries, independent of parliament, and uncontroulable by it; or capitulations and charters lofe their properties, and ceafe to have the force of compa£ts.—If, on the other hand, the grants of capitulations or original charters be confidered as a£ts of the king in his procuratorial capacity; and all fubfequent a£ts of the king, whether of the fubordinate legiflative, or of the executive power, as a£ts of a very different authority; we have at once the line we were in fearch of; a line fhewing how far parliament is bound or reftrained by any a£t of the king in the exercife of that power, with which he is invefted over conquered or acquired countries.The powers or exemptions granted by capitulations, or original charters, are what parliament cannot vacate. In all things elfe the inhabitants of conquered or acquired countries are fubje£t to the power of parliament.
