The Senate returned to their chamber after service, formed,and took up the address. Our Vice-President called it hismost gracious speech. I can not approve of this. A committee was appointed on it-Johnson, Carrol, Patterson. Adjourned. In the evening there were grand fireworks. TheSpanish Ambassador's house was adorned with transparentpaintings; the French Minister's house was illuminated, andhad some transparent pieces; the Hall was grandly illuminated, and after all this the people went to bed.May 18t.-Attended at the Hall at eleven. The prayerswere over and the minutes reading. When we came to theminute of the speech it stood, His most gracious speech. Ilooked all around the Senate. Every countenance seemed towear a blank. The Secretary was going on: I must speak ornobody would. "Mr. President, we have lately had a hardstruggle for our liberty against kingly authority. The mindsof men are still heated: everything related to that species ofgoverninent is odious to the people. The words prefixed tothe President's speech are the same that are usually placed before the speech of his Britannic Majesty. I know they willgive offense. I consider them as improper. I thereforemove that they be struck out, and that it stand simply addressor speech, as may be judged most suitable."Mr. Adams rose in his chair and expressed the greatestsurprise that anything should be objected to on account of itsbeing taken from the practice of that Governınent under whichwe had lived so long and happily formerly; that he was for adignified and respectable government, and as far as he knewthe sentiments of people they thought as he did; that for hispart he was one of the first in the late contest [the Revolution],and, if he could have thought of this, he never would havedrawn his sword.Painful as it was, I had to contend with the Chair. I admitted that the people of the colonies (now States) had enjoyedfornerly great happiness under that species of governnent,.but the abuses of that Government under which they had.smarted had tauglht them what they had to fear from that kindof government; that there had been a revolution in the sentiments of people respecting government equally great as thatwhich had happened in the Government itself; that even themodes of it were now abhorred; that the enemies of the Constitution had objected to it the facility there would be of transition from it to kingly government and all the trappings andsplendor of royalty; that if such a thing as this appeared onour minutes, they would not fail to represent it as the first stepof the ladder in the ascent to royalty. The Vice-Presidentrose a second time, and declared that he had mentioned it tothe Secretary; that he could not possibly conceive that anyperson could take offense at it. I had to get up again and declare that, although I knew of it being mentioned from theChair, yet my opposition did not proceed from any motive ofcontempt; that, although it was a painful task, it was solely asense of duty that raised me.The Vice-President stood during this time; said he hadbeen long abroad, and did not know how the temper of peoplemight be now. Up now rose Mr. Read, and declared for theparagraph. He saw no reason to object to it because the British speeches were styled most gracious. If we chose to objectto words because they had been used. in the same sense inBritain, we should soon be at a loss to do business. I had toreply. "It is time enough to submit to necessity when it exists. At present we are at no loss for words. The wordsspeech or address without any addition will suit us wellenough." The first time I was up Mr. Lee followed mewith a word or two by way of seconding me; but when theVice-President, on being last up, declared that he was theperson fron whom the words were taken, Mr. Lee got upand informed the Chair that he did not know that circumstance, as he had been absent when it happened. The question was put and carried for erasing the words without adivision.After the House adjourned the Vice-President took me toone side, declared how much he was for an efficient Government, how much he respected General Washington, and muchof that kind. I told him I would yield to no person in respectto General Washington; that our common friends would perhaps one day inform hin that I was not wanting in respeet tohimself [Adans]; that my wishes for an efficient Government were as high as any man's, and begged him to believe that Idid myself great violence when I opposed him in the chair,and nothing but a sense of duty could force me to it. He goton the subject of checks to government and the balances ofpower. His tale was long. He seemed to expect some answer. I caught at the last word, and said undoubtedly without a balance there could be no equilibrium, and so left himhanging in geometry.The unequivocal declaration that he would never havedrawn his sword, etc., has drawn my mind to the followingremarks: That the motives of the actors in the late Revolutionwere various can not be doubted. The abolishing of royalty,the extinguishment of patronage and dependencies attached tothat form of government, were the exalted motives of manyrevolutionists, and these were the improvements meant bythem to be made of the war which was forced on us by Britishaggression-in fine, the amelioration of government and bettering the condition of mankind. These ends and none otherwere publicly avowed, and all our constitutions and publicacts were formed in this spirit. Yet there were not wantinga party whose motives were different. They wished for theloaves and fishes of government, and cared for nothing elsebut a translation of the diadem and scepter from London toBoston, New York, or Philadelphia; or, in other words, thecreation of a new monarchy in America, and to form nichesfor themselves in the temple of royalty.This spirit manifested itself strongly among the officers atthe close of the war, and I have been afraid the army wouldnot have been disbanded if the common soldiers could havebeen kept together. This spirit they developed in the Orderof Cincinnati, where I trust it will spend itself in a harmlessflame and soon become extinguished. That Mr. Adams should,however, so unequivocally avow this motive, at a time when arepublican form of government is secured to every State inthe Union, appears to me a mark of extreme folly.*
