THE Argument that Salmasius, toward the con∣clusion of his First Chapter, urg'd as 〈◊〉∣ble; to wit, that it was really so, because all men unanimously agreed in it; That very Argument, than which, as he appli'd it, there is nothing more false; I, that am now about to discourse of the Right of Kings, may turn upon himself with a great deal of truth. For, whereas he defines a King (if that may be said to be defin'd which he makes infinite) to be a Person in whom the Supream Power of the Kingdom resides, who is answerable to God alone, who may do whatsoever pleaseth him, who is bound by no Law; I will undertake to demonstrate, not by mine, but by his own Reasons and Authorities, that there never was a Nation or People of any account (for to ransack all the uncivi∣liz'd Parts of the World were to no purpose) that ever allow'd this to be their King's Right, or put such ex∣orbitant Power into his hand, as that he should not be bound by any Law that be might do what he would, that he should judge all, but be judged of 〈◊〉: Nor ca•… my self, that there ever was any one Person besides Salmasius, of so slavish a Spirit, as to assert the outra∣gious Enormities of Tyrants to be the •eights of Kings. Those amongst us that were the greatest Royalists, always abhorr'd this fordid Opinion: and description PAGE 16 Salmasius himself, as appears by some other Writings of his, before he was brib'd, was quite of another mind. Insomuch, that what he here gives out, does not look like the Dictates of a free Subject under a free Government, much less in so famous a Common∣wealth as that of Holland, and the most eminent Uni∣versity there: but seems to have been penn'd by some despicable slave that lay rotting in a Prison, or a Dun∣geon. If whatever a King has a mind to do, the Right of Kings will bear him out in (which was a Lesson that the bloody Tyrant Antoninus Caracalla, though his Step-mother Julia preach'd it to him, and endeavour'd to i•ure him to the practice of it, by making him commit incest with her self, yet could hardly suck in); Then there neither is, nor ever was that King, that deserv'd the name of a Tyrant. They may safely violate all the Laws of God and Man: their very being Kings keeps them innocent. What Crime was ever any of them guilty of? they did but make use of their own Right upon their own Vassals. No King can commit such horrible Cruelties and Out∣rages, as will not be within this Right of Kings. So that there's no Pretence left for any Complaints or Expostulations with any of them. And dare you as∣sert, That this Right of Kings, as you call it, is ground∣ed upon the Law of Nations, or rather upon that of Na∣ture, you Brute Beast? for you deserve not the name of a Man, that are so cruel and unjust towards all those of your own kind; that endeavour as much as in you lies, so to bear down and villify the whole Race of Mankind, that were made after the Image of God, as to assert and maintain that those cruel and unmer∣ciful Taskmasters, that through the superstitious whim∣sies, 〈◊〉 sloth, or treachery of some persons, get in∣to the Chair, are provided and appointed by nature description PAGE 17 her self, that mild and gentle Mother of us all, to be the Governours of those Nations they enslave. By which Pestilent Doctrine of yours, having rendred them more fierce and untractable, you not only enable them to make havock of, and trample un∣der foot their miserable subjects; but endeavour to arm them for that very purpose with the Law of Na∣ture, the Right of Kings, and the very Constitutions of Government; than which nothing can be more impious or ridiculous. By my consent, as Dionysius formerly, of a Tyrant became a School-master, so you of a Grammarian, should become a Tyrant; not that you may have that Regal License of doing other people harm, but a fair opportunity of perishing mi∣serably your self: That, as Tiberius complain'd, when he had confin'd himself to the Island Capreae, you may be reduced into such a condition, as to be sensi∣ble that you perish daily. But let us look a little more narrowly into this right of Kings that you talk of. This was the sense of the Eastern, and of the VVestern part of the world. I shall not answer you with what Aristo∣tle and Cicero, who are both as credible Authors as any we have, tell us, viz. That the people of Asia easily submit to slavery, but the Syrians and the Jews are even born to it from the womb. I confess there are but few, and those men of great wisdom and courage, that are either desirous of Liberty, or capable of u∣sing it. The greatest, part of the world chuse to live under Masters; but yet they would have them just ones. As for such as are unjust and tyrannical, nei∣ther was God ever so much an enemy to Mankind as to enjoyn a necessity of submitting to them; nor was there ever any people so destitute of all sense, and sunk into such a depth of despair, and to impose so cruel a Law upon themselves and their posterity. First, description PAGE 18 you produce the words of King Solomon in his Ecclesia∣stes. And we are as willing to appeal to the Scripture as you. As for Solomon's authority, we'l consider that hereafter, when perhaps we shall be better able to understand it. First, let us hear God himself speak, Deut. 17. 14. VVhen thou art come into the land, which the Lord thy God giveth thee, and shalt say, I will set a King over me, like as the Nations that are round about me. Which passage I could wish all men would seri∣ously consider; for hence it appears by the testimony of God himself: First, that all Nations are at liber∣ty to erect what form of Government they will a∣mongst themselves, and to change it when, and into what they will. This God affirms in express terms concerning the Hebrew Nation; and it does not ap∣pear but that other Nations are as to this respect in the same condition. Another remark that this place yields us, is, That a Commonwealth is a more per∣fect form of Goverment th•n a Monarchy, and more suitable to the condition of Mankind; and in the opinion of God himself, better for his own people; for himself appointed it; And could hardly be pre∣vail'd withal a great while after, and at their own importunate desire, to let 'em change it in∣to a Monarchy. But to make it appear that he gave 'em their choice to be Govern'd by a single person, or by more, so they were justly Govern'd, in case they should in time to come resolve upon a King, he pre∣scribes Laws for this King of theirs to observe; whereby he was forbidden to multiply to himself Horses and Wives, or to heap up Riches; whence he might easily infer, that no power was put into his hands over others, but according to Law, since even those actions of his life, which related only to him∣self, were under a Law. He was commanded there∣fore description PAGE 19 to transcribe with his own hand all the Precepts of the Law, and having writ 'em out, to observe and keep 'em, that his mind might not be lifted up above his Brethren. 'Tis evident from hence, that as well the Prince as the people was bound by the Law of Moses. To this purpose Josephus writes, a proper and an able Interpreter of the Laws of his own Country, who was admirably well vers'd in the Jewish Policy, and infinitely preferable to a thousand obscure ignorant Rabbins: He has it thus in the Fourth Book of his Antiquities: 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, &c. An Ari∣stocracy is the best form of Government; wherefore do not you endeavour to settle any other; 'tis enough for you that God presides over ye. But if you will have a King, let him guide himself by the Law of God, rather than by his own wisdom; and lay a re∣straint upon him, if he offer at more power than the state of your affairs will allow of. Thus he expresseth himself upon this place in Deuteronomy. Another Jewish Author, Philo Judaus, who was Jo∣sephus his Contemporary, a very studious man in the Law of Moses, upon which he wrote a large Com∣mentary; when in his Book concerning the Creation of the King, he interprets this Chapter of Deuterono∣my, he sets a King loose from the Law no otherwise than as an enemy may be said to be so: They, says he, that to the prejudice and destruction of the peo∣ple acquire great power to themselves, deserve not the name of Kings, but that of Enemies. For their actions are the same with those of an irreconcilable enemy. Nay, they, that under a pretence of Go∣vernment are injurious, are worse than open ene∣mies. We may fence our selves against the latter; but the malice of the former is so much the more Pestilent, because it is not always easie to be disco∣vered. description PAGE 20 But when is is discover'd, why should they not be dealt with as enemies? The same Author in his second Book, Allegoriar. Legis, A King, says he, and a Tyrant are Contraries. And a little after, A King ought not only to command, but obey. All this is very true, you'l say, a King ought to observe the Laws, as well as any other man. But what if he will not? What Law is there to punish him? I an∣swer, the same Law that there is to punish other men; for I find no exceptions; there is no express Law to punish the Priests or any other inferior Magistrates, who all of 'em, if this opinion of the exemption of Kings from the Penalties of the Law would hold, may by the same reason claim impunity, what guilt soever they contract, because there is no positive Law for their punishment; and yet I suppose none of them ever challeng'd such a Prerogative; nor would it ever be allow'd 'em, if they should. Hitherto we have learn'd from the very Text of God's own Law, that a King ought to obey the Laws, and not lift himself up above his Brethre. Let us now consider whether Solomon preacht up any other Doctrine, Ch. 8 v. 2. I coun∣sel thee to keep the King's commandment, and that in regard of the oath of God. Be not hasty to go out of his sight; stand not in an evil thing, for he doth whatsoever pleaseth him. VVhere the word of a King is, there is power, and who may say unto him, what dost thou? It is well enough known that here the Preacher directs not his Precepts to the Sanhedrim, or to a Parliament, but to private persons; and such he commands to keep the King's commandment, and that in regard of the oath of God. But as they swear Allegiance to Kings, do not Kings like∣wise swear to obey and maintain the Laws of God, and those of their own Country? So the Reubenites and Gadites promise obedience to Jeshua, Josh. 1. 17. description PAGE 21 According as we harkned unto Moses in all things, so will we harken unto thee; only the Lord thy God be with thee, as he was with Moses. Here's an express condition. Hear the Preacher else, Chap. 9. v. 17. The words of wise men are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools. The next caution that Sol•mon gives us, is, Be not hasty to go out of his sight; stand not in an evil thing; for he doth whatsoever pleaseth him. That is, he does what he will to Malefactors, whom the Law authorizeth him to punish, and against whom he may proceed with mercy or severity, as he sees occasion. Here's nothing like Tyranny. Nothing that a good man needs be afraid of. Where the word of a King is, there is power; and who may say to him VVhat dost thou? And yet we read of one that not only said to a King, VVhat dost thou? but told him, Thou hast done foolishly. But Samuel, you may say, was an Extraordinary Per∣son. I answer you with your own words, which follow in the 49th. Page of your Book, VVhat was there extraordinary, say you, in Saul or in David? And so say I, what was there in Samuel extraordinary? He was a Prophet, you'l say; so are they that now fol∣low his example; for they act according to the will of God, either his reveal'd, or his secret will, which your self grant in your 50th. Page. The Preacher therefore in this place prudently adviseth private per∣sous not to contend with Princes; for it is even dan∣gerous to contend with any man that's either rich or powerful: But what then? must therefore the Nobi∣lity of a Nation, and all the inferior Magistrates, and the whole body of the people not dare to mutter when a King raves and acts like a mad-man? Must they not oppose a foolish, wicked, outragious Ty∣rant, that perhaps seeks the destruction of all good men? Must they not endeavour to prevent his turn∣ing description PAGE 22 all Divine and Humane things upside down? must they suffer him to massacre his People, burn their Cities, and commit such Outrages upon them daily; and finally, to have perfect liberty to do what he list without controul? O de Cappadocis eques catastis! Thou slavish Knight of Cappadocia. Whom all free People, if you can have the confidence hereafter to set your foot within a free Countrey, ought to cast out from amongst them, and send to some remote parts of the World, as a Prodigy of dire portent; or to condemn to some perpetual drudgery, as one devoted to slavery; solemnly obliging them∣selves, if they ever let you go, to undergo a worse slavery under some cruel•, silly Tyrant. No man living can either devise himself, or borrow from any other, Expressions so full of Cruelty and Contempt, as may not justly be apply'd to you. But go on. VVhen the Israelites asked a King of God, they said, they would set up a King that should have the same Rule and Dominion over them, that the Kings of their neighbour Countries exercis'd over their Subjects. But the Kings of the East we know had an unlimited Power: as Virgil te∣stifies, —Regem non sic Aegyptus & ingens Lydia, nec Populi Parthorum, & Medus, Hydaspes Observant.— No Eastern Nation ever did adore The Majesty of Soveraign Princes more. First, What is that to us, what sort of Kings the Israelites desired? especially since God was angry with description PAGE 23 them, not only for desiring such a King as other Na∣tions had, and not such a King as his own Law de∣scribes, but barely for desiring a King? Nor is it cre∣dible that they should desire an unjust King, and one that should be out of the reach of all Laws, who could not bear the Government of Samuel's Sons, though under the power of Laws, but from their Co∣vetousness sought refuge in a King. And lastly, The Verse that you quote out of Virgil, does not prove that the Kings of the East had an absolute unlimited Power; for those Bees, that he there speaks of, and who reverence their Kings, he says, more than the Egyptians or Medes do theirs, by the Authority of the same Poet, —magnis agitant sub legibus aevum. Live under certain Fundamental Laws. They do not live under a King then, that's tyed to no Law: But now I'le let you see how little reason you have to think I bear you an ill will. Most peo∣ple think you are a Knave; but I'le make it appear that you have only put on a Knaves Vizor for the pre∣sent. In your Introduction to your Discourse of the Pope's Supremacy, you say, that some Divines in the Council of Trent made use of the Government, that is said to be amongst Bees, to prove the Pope's Suprema∣cy. This fancy you borrow from them, and urge it here with the same malice that they did there. Now that very same answer that you gave them, whilst you were an honest man, now that you are become a Knave, you shall give your self, and pull off with your own hand that Vizor you've now put on; The Bees, say you are a State, and so natural Phi∣losophers call them; they have a King, but a harmless one, he is a Leader, or Captain, rather than a King▪ description PAGE 24 he never beats, nor pulls, nor kills his subject Bees. No wonder they are so observant of him then: But in good Faith, you had but ill luck to meddle with these Bees; for though they are Bees of Trent, they show you to be a Drone. Aristotle, a most exact writer of Poli∣ticks, affirms that the Asiatique Monarchy, which yet himself calls Barbarous, was according to Law: Politic. 3. And whereas he reckons up five several sorts of Monarchies, four of those five he makes Go∣vernments according to Laws, and with the consent of the People; and yet he calls them Tyrannical forms of Government, because they lodg so much power in one man's hand. But the Kingdom of the Lacedaemonians he says is most properly a Kingdom, because there all power is not in the King. The fifth sort of Monarchy, which he calls 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, that is, where the King is all in all; and to which he refers that, that you call the right of Kings, which is a Liberty to do what they list; he neither tells us when, nor where any such form of Govern∣ment ever obtain'd. Nor seems he to have mention'd it for any other purpose than to show how unjust, ab∣surd, and tyr•nnical a Government it is. You say, that when Samuel would deter the people from chu∣sing a King, he propounded to them this right of Kings. But whence had Samuel it? Had he it from the written Law of God? That can't be. We have observ'd al∣ready, that the Scriptures afford us a quite other Scheme of Soveraignty: Had Samuel it then imme∣diately from God himself by Revelation? That's not likely neither, for God dislikes it, discommends it, •…ds fault with it: So that Samuel does not expound to the People any right of Kings appointed by God; •ut a corrupt and deprived m•nner of Governing, •…en 〈◊〉 by the Pride •nd Ambition of Princes. He description PAGE 25 tells not the people what their Kings ought to do, but what they would do. He told them the manner of their King, as before he told us of the manner of the Priests, the Sons of Eli; for he useth the same word in both places; (which you in the 33d Page of your Book, by an Hebrew Soloecism too, call 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉). That manner of theirs was Wicked, and Odious, and Tyranical: It was no right, but great wrong. The Fathers have commented upon this place too: I'le instance in one, that may stand for a great many; and that's Sulpitius Severus, a contemporary and intimate Friend of St. Jerom, and in St. Augustin's opinion, a man of great Wisdom and Learning. He tells us in his sacred History, that Samuel in that place acquaints the people with the imperious Rule of Kings, and how th•y use to Lord it over their Subjects. Certainly it cannot be the right of Kings to domineer and be im∣perious. But according to Salust, that lawful Power and Authority that Kings were entrusted with, for the Preservation of the publick Liberty, and the good of the Common-wealth, quickly degenerated into Pride and Tyranny: And this is the sense of all Or∣thodox Divines, and of all Lawyers upon that place of Samuel: And you might have learn't from Sichardus, that most of the Rabbins too, were of the same mind; at least, not any one of them ever asserted that the absolute inherent right of Kings is there dis∣coursed of. Your self in your 5th Chapter, Page 106. complain, that not only Clemens Alexandrinus, but all other Expositors mistake themselves upon this Text: And you, I'le warrant ye, are the only man that have had the good luck to hit the mark. Now what a piece of folly and impudence is this in you to maintain in opposition to all Orthodox Expositors, that those very actions which God so much condemns, are the right description PAGE 26 of Kings? And to pretend Law for them? Though your self confess, that that right is very often exercis'd in committing Outrages, being injurious, contume∣lious, and the like. Was any man ever to that de∣gree, sui juris, so much his own Master, as that he might lawfully prey upon mankind, bear down all that stood in his way, and turn all things up-side down? Did the Romans ever maintain, as you say they did, That any man might do these things suo Ju∣re, by vertue of some inherent right in himself? Sa∣lust indeed makes C. Memmius a Tribune of the peo∣ple, in an invective Speech of his, against the pride of the Nobility, and their escaping unpunish'd, how∣soever they misbehaved themselves, to use these words, viz. to do whatever one has a mind to, without fear of Punishment, is to be a King. This Saying you catch'd hold off, thinking it would make for your purpose; but consider it a little better, and you'll find your self deceiv'd. Does he in that place assert the right of Kings? Or does he not blame the common-people, and chide them for their sloth, in suffering their Nobility to Lord it over them, as if they were out of the reach of all Law, and in sub∣mitting again to that Kingly Tyranny, which toge∣ther with their Kings themselves, their Ancestors had lawfully and justly rejected and banish'd from amongst them? If you had consulted Tully, you would have understood both Salust and Samuel better. In his Oration pro C. Rabirio, There is none of us igno∣rant, says he, of the manner of Kings. These are their Lordly dictates. Mind what I say, and do accordingly. Many passages to this purpose he quotes out of Poets, and calls them not the right, but the custom or the manner of Kings; and he says, We ought to read and consider them, not only for curiosity sake, but description PAGE 27 that we may learn to beware of 'em and avoid 'em. You perceive how miserably you're come off with Salust, who though he be as much an enemy to Tyranny, as any other Author whatsoever, you thought would have Patroniz'd this Tyrannical right that you are establishing. Take my word for't, the right of Kings seems to be tottering, and even to fur∣ther its own ruin, by relying upon such weak props for its support; and by endeavouring to maintain it self by such Examples and Authorities, as would ha∣sten its down-fall, if it were further off than it is. The extremity of right or law, you say, is the height of injury, Summum jus summa injuria; this saying is ve∣rified most properly in Kings, who when they go to the ut∣most of their right, fall into those courses, in which Samuel makes the Right of Kings to consist. And 'tis a miserable Right, which when you have said all you can for, you can no otherwise defend, than by confessing, that it is the greatest injury that may be. The extremity of Right or Law is said to be, when a man ties himself up to Niceties, dwells upon Letters and Syllables, and in the mean time neglects the intent and equity of the Law; or when a written Law is cunningly and maliciously interpreted; this Cicero makes to have been the rise of that common saying. But since 'tis certain that all right flows from the fountain of Ju∣stice, so that nothing can possibly be any man's right that is not just, 'tis a most wicked thing in you to af∣firm, that for a King to be unjust, rapacious, tyrannical, and as ill as the worst of 'em ever were, is according to the right of Kings, and to tell us that a Holy Pro∣phet would have persuaded the people to such a sense∣less thing. For whether written or unwritten, whether extreme or remiss, what Right can any Man have to be injurious? Which lest you should confess to be true description PAGE 28 of other Men, but not of Kings; I have one Man's Authority to oppose you with, who I think was a King himself, and professeth that that Right of Kings that you speak of, is odious both to God and himself: It is in the 94th Psalm, Shall the throne of ini∣quity have fellowship with thee, that frameth mischief by a law? Be not therefore so injurious to God, as to ascribe this Doctrine to him, viz. that all man∣ner of wicked and flagitious Actions are but the Right of Kings; since himself tells us, that he abhors all fellowship with wicked Princes for this very rea∣son, Because under pretence of Soveraignty they create Misery and Vexation to their Subjects. Nei∣ther bring up a false Accusation against a Prophet of God; for by making him to teach us in this place what the Right of Kings is, you do not produce the right Samuel, but such another empty Shadow, as was raised by the Witch of Endor. Tho for my own part, I verily believe that that infernal Samuel would not have been so great a Lyar, but that he would have confess'd, that what you call the Right of Kings, is Tyranny. We read indeed of Impieties countenanced by Law, Jus datum sceleri: you your self confess, that they are bad Kings that have made use of this boundless License of theirs to do every thing. Now this Right that you have introduc'd for the Destruction of Mankind, not proceeding from God, as I have prov'd it does not, must needs come from the Devil; and that it does really so, will appear more clearly hereafter. By vertue of this Liber∣ty, say you, Princes may if they will. And for this, you pretend to have Cicero's Authority. I'm always wil∣ling to mention your Authorities, for it generally hap∣pens that the very Authors you quote them out of, give you an Answer themselves. Hear else what Ci∣cero description PAGE 29 says in his 4th Phillippicke, What cause of War can be more just and warrantable than to avoid Sla∣very? For tho a People may have the good fortune to live under a Gentle Master, yet they are in a mi∣serable Condition, whose Prince may Tyrannize over them if he will. May, that is, can; has Power enough so to do. If he meant it of his Right, he would contradict himself, and make that an unjust Cause of War, which himself had affirm'd with the same Breath to be a most just one. It is not there∣fore the Right of all Kings that you describe, but the Injuriousness, and Force, and Violence of some. Then you tell us what private men may do. A private Man, say you, may Lie, may be Ungrateful, and so may Kings, but what then? May they therefore Plunder, Murder, Ravish without controul? 'Tis equally prejudicial and destructive to the Common∣wealth, whether it be their own Prince, or a Rob∣ber, or a Foreign Enemy that Spoils, Massacres, and Enslaves them. And questionless, being both alike Enemies of Humane Society, the one as well as the other may lawfully be oppos'd and punish'd; and their own Prince the rather, because he, tho raised to that Dignity by the Honours that his People have conferr'd upon him; and being bound by his Oath to defend the Publick Safety, betrays it notwith∣standing all. At last you grant, That Moses prescribes Laws, according to which the King that the People of Is∣rael should chuse, ought to Govern, tho different from this Right that Samuel proposeth; which words contain a double Contradiction to what you have said before. For where•s you had affirm'd, That a King was bound by no Law, here you confess he is. And you set up two contrary Rights, one described by Moses, and another by Samuel, which is absurd. But, says description PAGE 30 the Prophet, you shall be Servants to your King. Tho I should grant that the Israelites were really so, it would not presently follow, that it was the Right of their Kings to have them so; but that by the Usur∣pation and Injustice of most of them, they were re∣duc'd to that Condition. For the Prophet had fore∣told them, that that importunate Petition of theirs would bring a Punishment from God upon them; not because it would be their King's Right so to harrass them, but because they themselves had deserved it should be so. If Kings are out of the reach of the Law, so as that they may do what they list, they are more absolute than any Masters, and their Sub∣jects in a more despicable Condition than the worst of Slaves. The Law of God provided some Redress for them, tho of another Nation, if their Masters were Cruel and Unreasonable towards them. And can we imagine that the whole Body of the People of a free Nation, tho oppress'd and tyranniz'd over, and prey'd upon, should be left remediless? That they had no Law to protect them, no Sancturay to betake themselves to? Can we think that they were delivered from the Bondage that they were under to the Egyptian Kings, to be reduced into a worse, to one of their own Brethren? All which being neither agreeable to the Law of God, nor to common Sense, nothing can be more evident than that the Prophet declares to the People the Manner, and not the Right of Kings; nor the Manner of all Kings, but of most. Then you come to the Rabbins, and quote two of them, but you have as bad luck with them here, as you had before. For it is plain, that that other Chapter that Rabbi Joses speaks of, and which con∣tains, he says, the Right of Kings, is that in Deute∣ronomy, and not in Samuel. For Rabbi Judas says ve∣ry description PAGE 31 truly, and against you, that that Discourse of Sa∣muel's was intended only to frighten the People. 'Tis a most pernicious Doctrine to maintain, that to be any ones Right, which in its self is flat Injustice, unless you have a mind to speak by contraries. And that Samuel intended to affrighten them, appears by the 18th Verse, And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king, which ye shall have chosen you, and I will not hear you in that day, saith the Lord. That was to be their Punishment for their Obstinacy in persisting to desire a King against the Mind and Will of God, and yet they are not forbidden here either to pray against him, or to endeavour to rid themselves of him. For if they might lawfully pray to God against him, without doubt they might use all lawful means for their own Deliverance. For what Man living, when he finds himself in any Calamity, betakes him∣self to God, so as to neglect his own Duty in order to a Redress, and rely upon his lazy Prayers only? But be it how it will, what is all this to the Right of Kings, or of the English People? Who neither asked a King against the Will of God, nor had one appointed us by God, but by the Right that all Na∣tions have to appoint their own Governors, appoint∣ed a King over us by Laws of our own, neither in Obedience to, nor against any Command of God? And this being the Case, for ought I see, we have done well in deposing our King, and are to be com∣mended for it, since the Israelites sinned in asking one. And this the Event has made appear, for we, when we had a King, prayed to God against him, and he heard us, and delivered us. But the Jews, who not being under a Kingly Government, desired a King, he suffered to live in Slavery under one, till at last, after their return from the Babylonish Captivi∣ty, description PAGE 32 they betook themselves to their former Govern∣ment again. Then you come to give us a display of your Talmudical Learning, but you have as ill suc∣cess with that, as you have had with all the rest. For whilst you are endeavouring to prove that Kings are not liable to any Temporal Judicature, you quote an Authority out of the Treatise of the Sanhedrim, That the King neither is judged of others, nor does himself judge any. Which is against the Peoples own Petiti∣on in Samuel; for they desired a King that might judge them. You labour in vain to salve this, by tel∣ling us, that it is to be understood of those Kings that reigned after the Babylonish Captivity. For then, what say ye to Maimonides? He makes this diffe∣rence betwixt the Kings of Israel, and those of Juda; that the Kings of the Posterity of David judge, and are judged, but the Kings of Israel do neither. You con∣tradict and quarrel with your self, or your Rabbins, and still do my work for me. This, say you, is not to be understood of the Kings of Israel in their first Institu∣tion; for in the 17th Verse 'tis said, You shall be his Servants, that is, he shall use ye to it, not that he shall have any Right to make you so. Or if you un∣derstand it of their Kings Right, 'tis but a Judg∣ment of God upon them for asking a King; the ef∣fects of which they were sensible of under most of their Kings, tho not perhaps under all. But you need no Antagonists, you are such a perpetual Adversary to your self. For you tell us now a Story, as if you were arguing on my side, how that first Aristobulus, and after him J•naeus, Sirnamed Alexander, did not receive that Kingly right that they pretended to, from the Sanhedrim, that great Treasury and Oracle of the Laws of that Nation, but usurped it by de∣grees against the Will of the Senate. For whose sake, description PAGE 33 you say, that Childish Fable of the principal Men of that Assembly, being struck dead by the Angel Gabriel, was first invented: And thus you confess that this mag∣nificent Prerogative, upon which you seem mainly to rely, viz. That Kings are not to be judged by any upon Earth, was grounded upon this worse than an old Wives Tale, that is, upon a Rabbinical Fable. But that the Hebrew Kings were liable to be call'd in Questi∣on for their Actions, and to be punished with stripes, if they were found faulty, Sichardus shows at large out of the Writings of the Rabbins, to which Author you are indebted for all that you make use of, of that sort of Learning, and yet you have the Impudence to be thwarting with him. Nay, we read in the Scripture that Saul thought himself bound by a De∣cree of his own making; and in Obedience thereun∣to, that he cast Lots with his Son Jonathan which of them two should die. Uzzias likewise, when he was thrust out of the Temple by the Priests as a Leper, submitted as every private Person in such a Case ought to do, and ceas'd to be a King. Suppose he should have refused to go out of the Temple, and lay down the Government, and live alone, and had resol∣ved to assert that Kingly Right of not being subject to any Law; do you think the Priests and the People of the Jews would have suffered the Temple to be •…d, the Laws violated, and live themselves in danger of the In∣fection? It seems there are Laws against a 〈◊〉 King, but none against a Tyrant. Can any Man possibly be •o mad and foolish as to fancy that the Laws should •o far provide for the Peoples Health, as tho some noisome Distemper should seize upon the King himself, yet to prevent the Infection's reaching them; and make no Provision for the Security of their Lives and Estates, and the very being of the whole State description PAGE 34 against the Tyranny of a cruel, unjust Prince, which is incomparably the greater mischief of the two? But, say you, there can be no president shown of any one King, that has been ar•aigned in a Court of Justice, and 〈…〉 to dye. Sichardus answers that well enough. ▪•is all one, says he▪ as if one should argue on this manner. The Emperor of Germany never was 〈◊〉 to appear before one of the Prince-Electors; therefore if the Prince Elector Palatine should Impeach 〈…〉▪ he were not bound to plead to it; tho it appears by the Golden Bull, that Charles the 〈◊〉 subjected himself and his Successors to that cognizance and Jurisdiction. But no wonder if Kings were indulged in their Am∣bition, and their Exorbitances passed by, when the 〈…〉 corrupt and depraved, that even pri∣vate 〈◊〉▪ if they had either Money or Interest, might 〈◊〉 the Law▪ the guilty 〈…〉 of never so high 〈…〉 That 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 that you speak of, that 〈…〉 upon any other, and ac∣•… Earth, which you say is pe∣cu•… of Sovereign Princes, Aristotle 〈…〉 Book of his 〈◊〉. C•. 10. calls a most Tyran∣nical Form of Government, and not in the least to be endured by a 〈◊〉 People. And that Kings are not liable to be questioned for their Actions, you prove by the 〈◊〉 of a very Worthy Author, that Barba∣•… Tyrant, Mark 〈◊〉 one of those that subvert∣ed 〈◊〉 Commonwealth of R•me: And yet he him∣self when he undertook an Expedition against the 〈◊〉, summon'd Herod before him, to answer to a Cha•ge of Murder, and would have punished him▪ 〈◊〉 that Herod brib'd him. So that Anthony's •…ing this Prerogative Royal, and your Defence of King Charles, come both out of one and the same description PAGE 35 Spring. And 'tis very reasonable, say you, that it should be so; for Kings derive their Authority from God alone. What Kings are those, I pray, that do so? For I deny that there ever were any such Kings in the World, that derived their Authority from God alone. Saul the first King of Israel had never reign'd, but that the People desired a King, even against the Will of God; and tho he was proclaimed King once at Mizpah, yet after that, he lived a private Life, and look'd to his Fathers Cattel, till he was created so the second time by the People at Gilgal. And what think ye of David? Tho he had been anointed once by God, was he not anointed the second time in Hebron by the Tribe of Judah, and after that by all the People of Israel, and that after a mutual Covenant betwixt him and them? 2 Sam. 5. 1 Chron. 11. Now a Covenant lays an Obligation upon Kings, and restrains them within Bounds. So∣lomon, you say, succeeded him in the throne of the Lord, and was acceptable to all men: 1 Chron. 29. So, that 'tis something to be well-pleasing in the Eyes of the People. Jehoiadah the Priest made Joash King, but first he made him and the People enter into a Cove∣nant to one another, 2 Kings 11. I confess that these Kings, and all that reign'd of David's Posteri∣ty, were appointed to the Kingdom both by God and the People; but of all other Kings of what Country soever, I affirm, that they are made so by the People only; nor can you make it appear that they are appointed by God any otherwise than as all other things, great and small, are said to be appointed by him, because nothing comes to pass without his Providence. So that I allow the Throne of David was in a peculiar manner call'd, The throne of the Lord; whereas the Thrones of other Princes are description PAGE 36 no otherwise God's, than all other things in the World are his; which if you would, you might have learnt out of the same Chapter, Ver. 11, 12. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness, &c. for all that is in the Hea∣ven, and in the Earth is thine. Both riches and honour come of thee, and thou reignest over all. And this is so often repeated, not to puff up Kings, but to put them in mind, tho they think themselves Gods, that yet there is a God above them, to whom they owe whatever they are and have. And thus we easily understand what the Poets, and the Essenes among the Jews mean, when they tell us, That 'tis by God that Kings reign, and that they are of Jupiter; for so all of us are of God, we are all his Off-spring. So that this universal Right of Almighty God's, and the Inter∣est that he has in Princes, and their Thrones, and all that belongs to them, does not at all derogate from the Peoples Right; but that notwithstanding all this, all other Kings, not particularly and by name appointed by God, owe their Soveraignty to the People only, and consequently are accountable to them for the management of it. The truth of which Doctrine, tho the Common People are apt to flatter their Kings, yet they themselves acknow∣ledge, whether good ones, as Sarpedon in Homer is described to have been, or bad ones, as those Tyrants in H•race. 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, &c. Glaucus, in Lycia we're ador'd like Gods: What makes 'twixt us and others so great odds? He resolves the Question himself: Because, says he, we excel others in Heroical Virtues: Let us fight description PAGE 37 manfully then, says he, lest our Country-men tax us with Sloth and Cowardize. In which words he intimates to us, both that Kings derive their Grandeur from the People, and that for their Con∣duct and Behaviour in War, they are accountable to them. Bad Kings indeed, tho to cast some Terror into Peoples minds, and beget a Reverence of themselves, they declare to the World, that God only is the Author of Kingly Government; in their Hearts and Minds they reverence no other Deity but that of Fortune; according to that passage in Horace, Te Dacus asper, te profugi Schythae, Regumque matres barbarorum, & Purpurei metuunt Tyranni. Injurioso ne pede proruas Stantem columnam, neu populus frequens Ad arma cessantes, ad arma Concitet, imperiumque frangat. All barb'rous People, and their Princes too, All Purple Tyrants honour you; The very wandring Scythians do. Support the Pillar of the Roman State, Left all Men be involv'd in one Mans fate. Continue us in Wealth and Peace; Let Wars and Tumults ever cease. So that if 'tis by God that Kings now adays Reign, 'tis by God too that the People assert their own Li∣berty; since all things are of him, and by him. I'm sure the Scripture bears witness to both; that by him Kings reign, and that by him they are cast down description PAGE 38 from their Thrones. And yet experience teach∣eth us, that both these things are brought about by the People, oftner than by God. Be this Right of Kings therefore what it will, the Right of the People is as much of God as it. And when ever any People without some visible Designation of God him∣self, appoint a King over them, they have the same Right to put him down, that they had to set him up at first. And certainly 'tis a more God like Acti∣on to depose a Tyrant, than to set up one: And there appears much more of God in the People, when they depose an unjust Prince, than in a King that oppress•th an Innocent People. Nay, the People have a Warrant from God to judge wicked Princes; for God has conferrd this very honour upon those that are dear to him, that celebrating the praises of Christ their own King, they shall bind in Chains the Kings of the Nations, (under which Appellation all Tyrants under the Gospel are included) and execute the Jidgments written upon them that challenge to themselves an Exemption from all written Laws, Psalm 149. So that there's but little reason left for that wicked and follish Opinion, that Kings who common∣ly are the worst of Men, should be so high in Gods ac∣••unt, as that he should have put the World under 〈◊〉, to be at their 〈◊〉, and be govern'd according to their humour; and that for their sakes alone he sh•uld have reduced all Mankind, whom he made 〈◊〉 his own Image, into the same condition with 〈◊〉. After all this, rather than say nothing, you 〈◊〉 〈◊〉, as a countenancer of Tyranny; but 〈…〉 better have let him alone. I can't say 〈…〉 a••irm'd that Princes are accountable 〈…〉 God's Tribunal. But Xiphilene indeed, out of whom you quote those words of M. Aurelius, men∣tions description PAGE 39 a certain Government, which he calls an Autar∣chy, of which he makes God the only Judge. 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉. But that this word Autarchy and Monarchy 〈◊〉 Synonymous, I cannot ••sily perswade my self to believe And the more I read what goes before, the 〈◊〉, I find my self inclinable to think so. And certainly whoever consi∣ders the Context, will not easily apprehend what coherence this sentence has with it, and must needs wonder how it comes so abruptly into the Text; especially since Marcus Aurelius, that Mirrour of Prin∣ces, carried himself towards the people, as Capitoli∣nus tells us, just as if Rome had been a Common∣wealth still. And we all know that when it was so, the Supreme Power was in the People. The same Emperour honoured the memory of Thraseas, and H•l∣vidius, and Cato, and Dio, and Brutus; who all were Tyrant-slayers, or affected the reputation of being thought so. In the first Book that he writes of his own Life, he says that he propos'd to himself a form of Government, under which all men might equally enjoy the benefit of the Law, and Right and Justice be equally administred to all. And in his fourth Book he says, The Law is Master, and not he. He acknow∣ledged the right of the Senate and the people, and their Interest in all things: We are so far, says he, from having any thing of our own, that we live in your Houses. These things Xiphiline relates of him. So little did he arrogate ought to himself by vertue of his Soveraign Right. When he died, he recommended his Son to the Romans for his Successor, if they should think he deserv'd it. So far was he from pretending to a Commission from Heaven to exercise that abso∣lute and imaginary right of Soveraignty, that Au∣tarchy, that you tell us of. All the La••n and Gre•k description PAGE 40 B•…s are full of Authorities of this nature. But we have heard none of 'em yet. So are the Jewish Authors. And yet, you say, The Jews in many things allow'd but too little to their Princes. Nay, you'l find that both the Gr••ks and the Latins allow'd much less to Tyrants. And 〈◊〉 〈◊〉 the Jews allow'd them, would appear, if that Book that Samuel wrote of the manner of the Kingdom were extant; which Book the Hebrew Do∣ctors tell us their Kings •…re in pieces and burnt, that they might be more at liberty to Tyrannize over the people without controul or f••r of punishment. Now look about ye again, and catch hold of somewhat or other. In the last place you come to wrest David's words in the 17th. Psalm, 〈◊〉 my sentence come forth from thy 〈◊〉. Therefore, says Barnachmoni, God only can judge the King. And yet it's most likely that David 〈◊〉 this Psalm when he was persecuted by S•…, at which time, though himself were Anointed, he did not decline being judged even by Jonathan: Notwithstanding, if there be •…ity in me, stay me thy self, 1 Sam 20. At least in this Psalm he does no more than what any person in the world would do upon the like occasion; being falsely accus'd by men, he 〈…〉 the judgment of God himself, Let thine 〈…〉 that is right, th•• hast pr•v•d and •…. What relation has this to a Tem∣•…? C•rtainly they do no good office to 〈…〉 Kings, that thus discover the weakness of its 〈…〉. Then you come with that thread∣bare 〈…〉, which of all others is most in vogue with our 〈◊〉, Against thee, thee only have I sinned, Psal 51. 〈◊〉. As if David in the midst of his Repen∣tance. when ov••whelm'd with sorrow, and almost 〈…〉, h• was humbly imploring God's 〈◊〉, had 〈…〉 right of his, description PAGE 41 when his heart was so low, that he thought he de∣serv'd not the right of a slave. And can we think that he despis'd all the people of God, his own Bre∣thren, to that degree, as to believe that he might murder 'em, plunder 'em, and commit Adultery with their wives, and yet not sin against them all this while? So holy a man could never be guilty of such insufferable pride, nor have so little knowledg either of himself, or of his duty to his Neighbour. So without doubt, when he says, Against thee only, he means, against thee chiefly have I sinned, &c. But whatever he meant, the words of a Psalm are too full of Poetry, and this Psalm too full of Passion, to afford us any exact definitions of Right and Justice; nor is it proper to argue any thing of that nature from '•m. But David was never question'd for this, nor made to plead for his life before the San•edrim. What then? How should they know that any such thing had been, which was done so privately, that perhaps for some years after not above one or two were privy to it, as such secrets there are in most Courts? 2 Sam. 12. Thou hast done this thing in secret. Besides, what if the Senate should neglect to punish private persons? would any infer that therefore they ought not to be punish'd at all? But the reason why David was not proceeded against as a malefactor, is not much in the dark: He had condemn'd himself in the 5th. verse, The man that hath done this thing shall surely die. To which the Prophet presently replies, Thou art the man. So that in the Prophet's judgment as well as his own, he was worthy of death; but God by his Soveraign Right over all things, and of his great mercy to David, absolves him from the guilt of his Sin, and the sentence of death which he had pronounc'd a∣gainst himself; verse 13th. The Lord hath put away description PAGE 42 thy sin, thou shalt not die. The next thing you do is to rail at some bloody Advocate or other, and you take a deal of pains to refute the conclusion of his Dis∣course. Let him look to that. I'le endeavour to be as short as I can in what I'ue undertaken to go through with. But some things I must not pass by without taking notice of; as first and formost your notorious contradictions; for in the 30th. Page you say, The Israelites do not deprecate an unjust, rapacious, Tyrannical King, one as bad as the worst of Kings are. And yet, page 42 you are very smart upon your Advocate, for maintaining that the Israelites asked for a Tyrant: Would they have leaped out of the Frying-pan into the fire, say you and gr•an under the cruelty of the worst of Ty∣rants, rather than live under bad Judges, especially being us'd to such a form of Government? First you said the Hebrews would rather live under Tyrants than Judges, here you say they would rather live under Judges than Tyrants; and that they desir'd nothing less than a Tyrant So that your Advocate may answer you out of your own Book. For according to your Principles 'tis every King's right to be a Tyrant. What you say next, is very true, The Supreme Power was then in the people, which appears by their own rejecting their Judges, and making choice of a Kingly Government. Remember this when I shall have occasion to make use of it. You say that God gave the children of Israel a King as a thing good and profitable for them, and deny that he gave them one in his anger as a punishment for their sin. But that will receive an easie answer; for to what purpose should they cry to God because of the King that they had chosen if it were not because a Kingly Govern∣ment is an evil thing; not in it self, but because it most commonly does, as Samuel forewarns the peo∣ple that theirs would, degenerate into Pride and Ty∣ranny; description PAGE 43 if y'are not yet satisfied, hark what you say your self; acknowledg your own hand, and blush; 'tis your Apparatus ad Primatum: God gave them a King in his anger, say you, being offended at their sin in reje∣cting him from ruling over them; and so the Christian Church, as a punishment for it's forsaking the pure Worship of God has been subjected to the more than Kingly Government of one mortal head. So that if your own com∣parison holds, either God gave the Children of Israel a King as an evil thing, and as a punishment; or he has set up the Pope for the good of the Church. Was there ever any thing more and light mad than this man is? Who would trust him in the smallest mat∣ters, that in things of so great concern says and un∣says without any consideration in the world? You tell us in your 29th. Page, That by the constitution of all Nations, Kings are bound by no Law. That this had been the judgment both of the Eastern and Western part of the VVorld. And yet pag. 43. you say, That all the Kings of the East ruled 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, according to Law, nay that the very Kings of Egypt in all matters whatsoever, whether great or small, were tied to Laws. Though in the begin∣ning of this Chapter you had undertook to demon∣strate that Kings are bound by no Laws, that they give Laws to others, but have none prescribed to themselves. For my part I've no reason to be angry with ye, for ei∣ther y'are mad, or of our side. You do not defend the King's cause, but arguë against him, and play the fool with him: Or if y'are in earnest, that Epigram of Ca∣tullus: Tantò pessimus omnium Poeta, Quantò tu optimus omnium Patronus, The worst of Poets, I my self declare, By how much you the best of Patrons are. That Epigram, I say, may be turn'd, and very pro∣perly applied to you; for there never was so good a description PAGE 44 Poet, as you are a bad Patron. Unless that stupidity, that you complain your Advocate is immers'd over head and ears in, has blinded the eyes of your own under∣standing too, I'le make ye now sensible that y'are be∣come a very brute your self. For now you come and confess that the Kings of all Nations have Laws prescribed to them. But then you say again, They are not so under the power of them, as to be liable to censure or punishment of death, if they break them. Which yet you have proved neither from Scripture, nor from any good Authour. Observe then in short; to prescribe Mu∣nicipal Laws to such as are not bound by them, is silly and ridiculous; and to punish all others, but leave some one man at liberty to commit all sort of Impieties without fear of punishment, is most unjust; the Law being general, and not making any excep∣tion; neither of which can be suppos'd to hold place in the Constitutions of any wise Law-maker, much less in those of God's own making. But that all may perceive how unable you are to prove out of the wri∣tings of the Jews, what you undertook in this Chap∣ter to make appear by 'em, you confess of your own accord, That there are some Rabbins, who affirm that their fore fathers ought not to have had any other King than God himself; and that he set other Kings over them for their pu∣nishment. And of those men's opinion, I declare my self to be. It is not fitting nor decent that any man should be a King that does not far excel all his Sub∣jects. But where men are Equals as in all Governments very many are, they ought to have an equal interest in the Government, and hold it by turns. But that all Men should be Slaves to one that is their Equal, or (as it happens most commonly) far inferior to 'em, and very often a Fool, who can so much as entertain such a thought without Indignation? Nor does it make for the description PAGE 45 Honour of a Kingly Government, that our Saviour was of the posterity of some Kings, more than it does for the com∣mendation of the worst of Kings, that he was the Offspring of some of them too. The Messias is a King. We acknowledg him so to be, and rejoyce that he is so, pray that his Kingdom may come, for he is worthy. Nor is there any other either equal or next to him. And yet a Kingly Government being put into the hands of unworthy and undeserving persons, as most commonly it is, may well be thought to have done more harm than good to Mankind. Nor does it follow for all this that all Kings as such, are Ty∣rants. But suppose it did, as for argument sake, I'le allow it does, least you should think I'm too hard with ye. Make you the best use of it you can. Then, say you, God himself may properly be said to be the King of Tyrants, nay, himself the worst of all Tyrants. If the first of these conclusions does not follow, another does, which may be drawn from most parts of your Book: viz. That you perpetually contradict, not only the Scriptures, but your own self. For in the very last fore-going Period you had affirmed that God was the King of all things, having himself created them. Now he created Tyrants and Devils, and consequent∣ly by your own reason, is the King of such. The 2'd of these Conclusions we detest, and wish that blas∣phemous Mouth of yours were stopt up, with which you affirm God to be the worst of Tyrants, If he be, as you often say he is, the King and Lord of such. Nor do you much advantage your Cause by telling us that Moses was a King, and had the absolute and supream power of a King. For we could be content that any other were so, that could refer our matters to God, as Moses did, and consult with him about our affairs. Exod. 18. v. 19. But neither did Moses, notwithstanding description PAGE 46 his great familiatity with God, ever assume a Liberty of doing what he would himself. What says he of himself? The people come unto me to enquire of God. They came not then to receive Moses his own Dictates and Commands, Then says Jethro, ver. 19. Be thou for the people to God-ward, that thou mayst bring their cau∣ses unto God. And Moses himself says, Deut. 4. v 5. I have taught you statutes and judgments, even as the Lord my God commanded me. Hence it is that he is said to have been faithful in all the hause of God. Numb. 12 v. 7. So that the Lord Jehovah himself was the people's King, and Moses no other than as it were an Interpreter or a Messenger betwixt him and them. Nor can you without In piety and Sacriledg; transfer this absolute supream Power and Authority from God to a man; (not having any Warrant from the word of God so to do) which Moses used only as a Deputy or Substitute to God; under whose Eye, and in whose presence, him∣self and the people always were. But now, for an aggravation of your wickedness, though here you make Moses to have exercis'd an absolute and unlimi∣tted Power, in your apparat. ad primat. Page 230. You say that he together with the seventy elders ruled the people, and that himself was the chief of the people, but not their Master. If Moses therefore were a King, as certainly he was, and the best of Kings, and had a Supream and Legal Power, as you say he had, and yet neither was the people's Master nor Govern'd them alone; then according to you, Kings, though indued with the Supream Power, are not by Ver∣tue of that Sovereign and Kingly Right of theirs Lords over the people, nor ought to Govern them alone; much less, according to their own Will and Pleasure? After all this, you have the Impudence to feign a command from God to that people, to set up a description PAGE 47 King over them, as soon as they should be possessed of the holy land, Deut. 17. For you craftily leave out the for∣mer words, and shalt say, I will set a King over me, &c. And now call to mind what you said before, Page 42d and what I said, I should have occasion to make use of: viz. That the power was then in the people, and that they were entirely free. What follows, argues you either Mad or irreligious; take whether you lift: God, say you, having so long before appointed a Kingly Government, as best and most proper for that people; what shall we say to Samuel's opposing it, and God's own acting, as if himself were against it? How do these things agree? He finds himself caught, and observe now with how great malice against the Prophet, and impiety against God, he endeavours to disentangle himself. We must consider, says he That Samuel's own Sons then Judged the people, and the people rejected them because of their corruption; now Samuel was loth his Sons should be lay'd aside, and God to gratify the Prophet, intimated to him as if himself were not very well pleased with it. Speak out ye wretch, and never mince the matter: You mean, God dealt deceitfully with Samuel, and he with the peo∣ple. It is not your Advocate, but your self that are Frantick and Distracted; who cast off all reverence to God Almighty, so you may but seem to Honour the King. Would Samuel prefer the Interest of his Sons and their Ambition, and their Covetousness, before the general good of all the people, when they asked a thing that would be good and profitable for them? Can we think that he would impose upon them by cunning and subtilty, and make them believe things that were not? Or if we should suppose all this true of Samuel, would God himself countenance and gra∣tify him in it; would he dissemble with the people? So that either that was not the right of Kings which description PAGE 48 Samuel taught the people; or else that right by the Testimony, both of God and the Prophet was an evil thing, was burdensom, injurious, unprofitable, and chargeable to the Common-wealth: Or Lastly, (which must not be admitted), God and the Pro∣phet •eceiv'd the People. God frequently protests that he was extreamly displeas'd with them for asking a King▪ v. 7th. They have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. As if it were a kind of Idolatry to ask a King, that would even suffer himself to be ador'd, and assume almost Divine Honour to himself. And certainly, they that subject themselves to a worldly Master, and set him above all Laws, come but a little short of chu∣sing a strange God: And a strange one it commonly is; brutish, and void of all sense and reason. So 1st of Sam. Chap. 10th. v. 19th. And ye have this day re∣jected your God, who himself saved you out of all your ad∣versities and your tribulation, and ye have said unto him, Nay, but set a king over us, &c. and Chap 12th. v. 12th. Ye said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when the Lord your God was your king, and v. the 17th. See that your wickedness is great, that ye have done in the sight the Lord, in asking you a king. And Hosea speaks con∣temptibly of the King, Chap. 13. v. 10th. 11th. I will be thy king; where is any other that may save in all thy cities, and thy judges of whom thou saidest: give me a king and princes? I gave th•• a king in mine anger, and took him 〈…〉 my wrath. And Gidem that warlike Judg, that was greater than a King; I will not rule over you, says he, 〈…〉 shall my son rule over you; the Lord shall rule over you, Judges, Chap the 8th. Intimating thereby, that it is not fit for a man, but for God only to exercise Dominion over men. And hence Josephus in his Book against A•…, an Egyptian Grammarian, and a •oul∣mouth'd description PAGE 49 fellow, like you, calls the Commonwealth of the Hebrews a Theocracy, because the principality was in God only. In Isaiah, Chap. 26. v. 13. The peo∣ple in their repentance, complain that it had been mis∣chievous to them, that other Lords besides God himself, had had Dominion over them. All which places prove clearly, that God gave the Israelites a King in his an∣ger; but now who can forbear laughing at the use you make of Abimelech's story? Of whom it is said, when he was kill'd, partly by a woman, that hurl'd a piece of a Mill-stone upon him, and partly by his own Armour-Bearer; that God rendred the wick∣edness of Abimelech. This History, say you, proves strong∣ly that God only is the Judge and Avenger of Kings. Yea, if this Argument holds, he is the only Judge and Punisher of Tyrants, Villanous Rascals and Bastards, whoever can get into the Saddle, whether by right or by wrong, has thereby obtain'd a Soveraign King∣ly right over the people, is out of all danger of pu∣nishment, all inferior Magistrates must lay down their Arms at his feet, the people must not dare to mutter. But what if some great notorious robber had perished in War, as Abimelech did, would any man infer from thence, That God only is the Judge and Punisher of High-way men? Or what if Abimelech had been condemn'd by the Law, and died by an Exe∣cutioner's hand, would not God then have rendred his wickedness? You never read that the Judges of the Children of Israel were ever proceeded against according to Law: And yet you confess, That where the Government is an Aristocracy, the Prince, if there be any, may and ought to be call'd in question, if he break the Laws. This in your 47th. Page. And why may not a Tyrant as well be proceeded against in a Kingly Go∣vernment? Why, because God rendred the wicked∣ness description PAGE 50 of Abimelech. So did the Women, and so did his own Armour-bearer; over both which he pre∣tended to a right of Soveraignty. And what if the Magistrates had rendred his wickedness? Do not they bear the Sword for that very purpose, for the pu∣nishment of Malefactors? Having done with his pow∣erful argument from the History of Abimelech's death, he b•takes himself, as his custom is, to Slanders and Calumnies; nothing but dirt and filth comes from him; but for those things that he promis'd to make appear, he hath not prov'd any one of them, either from the Scriptures, or from the Writings of the Rab∣bins. He alledges no reason why Kings should be a∣bove all Laws, and they only of all mortal men ex∣empt from punishment, if they deserve it. He falls foul upon those very Authors and Authorities that he makes use of, and by his own Discourse demonstrates the truth of the opinion that he argues against. And perceiving that he is like to do but little good with his arguments, he endeavours to bring an odium up∣on us, by loading us with slanderous accusations, as having put to death the most Vertuous innocent Prince that ever reign'd. VVas King Solomon, says he, better than King Charles the First? I confess some have ventur'd to compare his Father King James with So∣lomon, nay to make King James the better Gentleman of the 〈◊〉. Solomon was David's Son, David had been Sau•…, •…n; but king James was the Son of the End of Darly, who, as •uchanan tells us, because D•… the Musitian get into the Queen's Bed-Cham∣ber at an unseasonable time, kill'd him a little after, he could not get to him then because he had Bolted the Door on the inside. So that King James being the Son of an Ear•, was the better Gentleman; and was frequently called a second Solomon, though it is not description PAGE 51 very certain that himself was not the Son of David the Musitian too. But how could it ever come into your head to make a comparison betwixt King C•ries and Solomon? For that very King Charles whom you praise thus to the sky, that very man's ob•…acy, and covetousness, and cruelty, his hard usage of all good and honest men, the Wars that he rais'd, the Spoil∣ings and Plunderings and Conflagrations that he oc∣casioned, and the death of innumerable of his Sub∣jects that he was the cause of, does his Son Charles, at this very time whilest I'm a writing, confess and be∣wail in the Stool of Repentance in Scotland and re∣nounces there that Kingly right that you assert; but since you delight in Parallels, let's compare King Charles and King Solomon together a little: Solomon began his reign with the death of his Brother, who had justly deserved it; King Charles began his with his Fa∣ther's Funeral, I do not say with his Murder; and yet all the marks and tokens of Poyson that may be, appeared in his dead body; but the suspition lighted upon the Duke of Buckingham only; whom the 〈◊〉 notwithstanding cleared to the Parliament, though he had killed the King, and his Father; and not only so• but he dissolved the Parliament, lest the matter should be enquired into Solomon oppressed the people with heavy Taxes; but he spent that •…upon the Temple of God, and in raising other publick Buil∣dings. King Charles spent his in Extravag 〈◊〉 Solomon was enticed to Idolatry by many Wives: This man by one. Solomon, though he were seduced himself, we read not that he seduced others; but King Charles seduced and enticed others not only by large and am∣ple rewards to corrupt the Church, but by his Edicts and Ecclesiastical Constitutions he compelled them to set up Altars, which all Protestants abhor, and to description PAGE 52 bow down to Crucifixes painted over them on the Wall. But yet for all this, Solomon was not condem∣ned to die. Nor does it follow, because he was not, that therefore he ought not to have been. Perhaps there were many Circumstances that made it then not expedient. But not long after the people both by words and actions made appear what they took to be their right; when Ten Tribes of Twelve revolted from his Son; and if he had not saved himself by flight, it is very likely they would have stoned him, notwithstanding his Threats and big swelling words
