Since my last nothing very material has happened with us, or at least I have heard very little news; our papers never coming to hand, altho Purdie 2 and the other printers have been expressly ordered to send them to Fredericksburg by our Rider. A Tender came last Week to Hobbs Hole and took a new England man loaded with grain & flower from the Warf, an alarm was given and the militias of Essex and Richmond pursued them in Vessels they retook the prize and brought her back; the Tender escaped the pursuit within three miles of Urbanna, a negro fellow belonging to Walter who was skipper of the boat was killed whatever other damage done to our men. We have a Report which I believe to be true, tho it may be improper to propagate it unless fully confirmed, That young Mr. Wormeley3 is under close Confinement in Williamsburg. He was taken in a Tender going to Dunmore 4 . Charles Neilson & John Grymes 5 were also taken in another Tender carrying provisions to that Monster. If this news be true I doubt not they will meet with their deserts. Since I wrote the above pieces of news it has been confirmed so that except that he has a guard over him (it may be depended upon) and not in close confinement. I am astonished we hear nothing from Quebec 6 ; Our Success of it will be of the utmost Consequence to our Cause I observe the Pensylvania Papers are filled with controversy about Independence and think the Writers have rather left the Question [.] what matters it to us at present whether monarchy is reprobated by the Almighty or not, It will be time enough to consider what kind of Government is best suited for America when we have determined our selves independent; indeed every man who wishes to be free will be forming Opinions relative to the form of Government And those Opinions it would do well to communicate; but the present contest between Cato & Cassandra 7 should be of the Expediency or Inexpediency of Independence. However, if you will give me leave I will shew you my Sentiments of Monarchical Government as established amongst the Jews. My thoughts are not well connected, as my Avocations so frequently take me off from the subject that the chain is often broke. It...not be amiss for the [judgment]...this... [1v] most abject Slavery not less content with it or in a greater state of Ignorance, [nay] by no means so ignorant as numbers of our slaves here, their whole history shew it; that they were Heathens no one will deny for what few religious rights they had were from the Egyptians. of course they had no form of Government until they arrived in the Land of promise and it was left to them by their Lawgiver Moses. They never gave themselves the trouble to reflect on the Nature of Government, and it was sufficient for such a set of Wretches to obey the dictates of their Judges, 8 especially as they believed every ordinance came from God. 9 under what kind of Government they really did live in the time of the Judges it is extremely difficult to, if not impossible to judge; for as to calling it a Theocracy it is talking Nonsense, because every State in the Universe is equally a Theocracy. 10 Whoever believes in a particular Providence must acknowledge that the Events of States are governed by the Almighty, and I am sure the Hand of God has been with us. It is true as the Jews were in such a state of Ignorance as to be unable to make any Laws for themselves God did prescribe a set of Laws for them, such as would be sufficient for their Government; that his wise purposes in bringing abt. the Redemption of man by his son Jesus Christ might be fully answered; but he left the Execution of these laws to the people themselves. He was well acquainted with their Ignorance. He knew them fond of the Customs of the Egyptians, and that they would seek every opportunity to return to them, and his laws were calculated to keep them separated from those as well as other Heathens. These paid divine honors to their Kings, and he, as himself declared, being a jealous God, took every means to prevent them from falling into the same Error; knowing that a person placed so far above the level of the people 11 would lead them to whatever he pleased. He knew that all felicity would be at an end and their Slavery under a King would be as great as whilst they lived in Egypt. How then must the Almighty resent this demanding a Monarch to reign over them. Had they have had ... to have formed ... Government .... [2r] It was not particularly with Saul but with all their Kings. Look through the whole catalogue of Kings (a very long one) and you will find few, very few, but what were a curse to them. The much admired King David† was as great a curse to them as any other. What constant Wars was he engaged in during his whole life, and what a punishment did he bring on them for no appearance of a fault in them, the Loss of three score and ten thousand men purely for his own disobedience of the Commands of God, or his own pride or folly. Can it be thought that the Almighty would have been so unmerciful to his people if it had not have been to shew them the impropriety of having a King for whose Trespasses they were to suffer. God had expressly declared to them long before they asked a King that they would do it and that he would punish them 12 with the Kings they should set over them. see 28th Cap. Deuteronomy to the 37th. Hosea in the 13th Chapter 11th verse says “I gave thee a King in mine Anger and took him away in my wrath.” In short god was displeased with their demanding a King and was determined they should suffer for his Crimes that they did suffer instantly for their Kings faults will be seen by any person who will give himself the trouble to read their History whilst governed by Kings. † The character of David is much misunderstood. He was indeed a sinner; but he was the humblest + sincerest of penitents. Cato thinks he has refuted Common Sense by producing a few texts of Scripture to shew God was no enemy to monarchical Government but rather approved of it: “When thou 13 come into the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, and shalt say I will set a King over me &c and then asks does not this smell strong of Monarchy and even of Hereditary Monarchy? I answer that God has expressly declared his displeasure with the Jews for asking a King; but he knew long before they did demand one that they would do it; and he only tells them if they should be so foolish as to do it what sort they should choose & declares how he ought to conduct himself by which Conduct he should obtain his favor; It was necessary for the purposes of the Almighty [mentioned] before that... subsist as a people a certain time... punish ... [2v] their days in the Kingdom shall be prolonged. It is pity Cato has not the Candor to compare the Scriptures, a crime he accuses Common Sense of. 14 Cato gives a plain proof hat he has a good deal of Priest craft; Is he not a scotch clergyman 15 ? I should have proceeded a little farther but am just called off and indeed I fear you are fully tired with what I have wrote. farewell & be assured I am with the greatest Esteem It is to be observed that Hoshea the last King of Israel together with the whole people, except Judah which was governed by other Kings, was then in Captivity. The fate of Judah was prolonged a few years upon Acc t . of the good Reign of Hezekiah. But it was but a short time before that Hezekiah was destroyed and the whole people Captives to the Babylonians. Thus we see as God gave them a King in his Anger he now took him away in his wrath and suffered his people to be punished 16 by reducing them to Slavery in a strange Land. If Monarchy was not a Curse to the Jews, let Cato say. 17 necessary to explain it, — a clear proof that other craft may be employed as well as Kingcraft and Priest-craft, in ‘withholding the Scripture from the people,’ even in Protestant countries” (American Archives: Fourth Series, vol. 5, p. 841). 15 William Smith had been born in Aberdeen and was an Episcopal priest. 
