I SHALL now proceed to say a few words upon particular parts of the Constitution.In the second section, “the supreme legislature is vested in a single House of Representatives of the freemen of the Commonwealth.” By this section we find that the supreme, absolute, and uncontrolled power of the whole state is lodged in the hands of one body of men. Had it been lodged in the hands of one man, it would have been less dangerous to the safety and liberties of the community. Absolute power should never be trusted to man. It has perverted the wisest heads and corrupted the best hearts in the world. I should be afraid to commit my property, liberty, and life to a body of angels for one whole year. The Supreme Being alone is qualified to possess supreme power over his creatures. It requires the wisdom and goodness of a Deity to control and direct it properly.In order to show the extreme danger of trusting all the legislative power of a state to a single representation, I shall beg leave to transcribe a few sentences from a letter written by Mr. John Adams to one of his friends in North Carolina, who requested him to favour him with a plan of a government for that state, about twelve months ago. This illustrious citizen, who is second to no man in America in an inflexible attachment to the liberties of America and to republican forms of government, writes as follows:“I think a people cannot be long free, nor ever happy, whose government is in one assembly. My reasons for this opinion are as follow.“1. A single assembly is liable to all the vices, follies, and frailties of an individual—subject to fits of humour, starts of passion, flights of enthusiasm, partialities of prejudice, and consequently productive of hasty results and absurd judgments. All these errors ought to be corrected, and defects supplied, by some controlling power.“2. A single assembly is apt to be avaricious, and in time will not scruple to exempt itself from burdens which it will lay, without compunction, upon its constituents.“3. A single assembly is apt to grow ambitious, and after a time will not hesitate to vote itself perpetual. This was one fault of the Long Parliament, but more remarkably of Holland, whose assembly first voted themselves from annual to septennial, then for life, and after a course of years, that all vacancies happening by death or otherwise should be filled by themselves, without any application to constituents at all.“4. Because a single assembly possessed of all the powers of government would make arbitrary laws for their own interest, and adjudge all controversies in their own favour.”If anything could be necessary upon this subject after such an authority, I might here add that Montesquieu, Harrington, Milton, Addison, Price, Bolingbroke, and others—the wisest statesmen and the greatest friends to liberty in the world—have left testimonies upon record of the extreme folly and danger of a people’s being governed by a single legislature. I shall content myself with the following extract from one of those authors. The sentiments perfectly coincide with those of our countryman before mentioned:“By simple forms of government, I mean such as lodge the supreme power absolutely and without control either in a single person, or in the principal persons of the community, or in the whole body of the people. Such governments are governments of arbitrary will, and therefore of all imaginable absurdities the most absurd. They stand in direct opposition to the sole motive of submission to any government whatsoever; for if men quit the state of nature and renounce the rights of nature (one of which is, to be sure, that of being governed by their own will), they do this that they may not remain exposed to the arbitrary will of other men—the weaker to the lust of the stronger, the few to that of the many. Now, in submitting to any single form of government whatever, they establish what they mean to avoid; and for fear of being exposed to arbitrary will sometimes, they choose to be governed by it always. These governments do not only degenerate into tyranny; they are tyranny in their very institution; and they who submit to them are slaves, not subjects, however the supreme power may be exercised; for tyranny and slavery do not so properly consist in the stripes that are given and received, as in the power of giving them at pleasure, and the necessity of receiving them whenever, and for whatever, they are inflicted.”I might go on further and show that all the dissensions of Athens and Rome, so dreadful in their nature and so fatal in their consequences, originated in single assemblies possessed of all the power of those commonwealths; but this would be the business of a volume, and not of a short essay. I shall therefore pass on to answer the various arguments that have been used in Pennsylvania in support of a single legislature.IV. We are told that the perfection of everything consists in simplicity—that all mixtures in government are impurities, and that a single legislature is perfect because most simple. To this I answer, that we should distinguish between simplicity in principles and simplicity in the application of principles to practice. What can be more simple than the principles of mechanics, and yet into how many engines and forms have they been tortured by the ingenuity of man? A few simple elementary bodies compose all the matter of the universe; and yet how infinitely are they combined in the various forms and substances which they assume in the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms. In like manner, a few simple principles enter into the composition of all free governments. These principles are perfect security for property, liberty, and life; but these principles admit of extensive combinations when reduced to practice. Nay more, they require them. A despotic government is the most simple government in the world; but instead of affording security to property, liberty, or life, it obliges us to hold them all on the simple will of a capricious sovereign. I maintain, therefore, that all governments are safe and free in proportion as they are compounded in a certain degree; and, on the contrary, that all governments are dangerous and tyrannical in proportion as they approach to simplicity.We are told by the friends of a single legislature that there can be no danger of their becoming tyrannical, since they must partake of all the burdens they lay upon their constituents. Here we forget the changes that are made upon the head and heart by arbitrary power, and the cases that are recorded in history of annual assemblies having refused to share with their constituents in the burdens which they had imposed upon them. If every elector in Pennsylvania is capable of being elected an assemblyman, then, agreeably to the 8th section of the Constitution, it is possible for an Assembly to exist who do not possess a single shilling of property in the state, and who can give no other evidence of a common interest in, or attachment to, the community than having paid “public taxes,” which may mean poor taxes. Should this be the case (and there is no obstacle in the Constitution to prevent it), surely it will be in the power of such an Assembly to draw from the state the whole of its wealth in a few years, without contributing anything further towards it than their proportion of the trifling tax necessary to support the poor. But I shall show, in another place, equal danger from another class of men becoming a majority in the Assembly.We are told of instances of the House of Lords in England checking the most salutary laws after they had passed the House of Commons, as a proof of the inconvenience of a compound legislature. I believe the fact to be true, but I deny its application in the present controversy. The House of Lords in England possess privileges and interests which do not belong to the House of Commons. Moreover, they derive their power from the crown and not from the people. No wonder, therefore, they consult their own interests in preference to those of the people. In the state of Pennsylvania we wish for a council with no exclusive privilege, and we disclaim every idea of their possessing the smallest degree of power but what is derived from the annual suffrages of the people. A body thus chosen could have no object in view but the happiness of their constituents. It is remarkable in Connecticut that the legislative council of that state has in no one instance made amendments to, or put a negative upon, the acts of their Assembly in the course of above one hundred years, in which both have not appeared, to the people, in a few months, to have been calculated to promote their liberty and happiness.We are told that the Congress is a single legislature; therefore a single legislature is to be preferred to a compound one. The objects of legislation in the Congress relate only to peace and war, alliances, trade, the post-office, and the government of the army and navy. They never touch the liberty, property, nor life of the individuals of any state in their resolutions; and even in their ordinary subjects of legislation they are liable to be checked by each of the thirteen states.We have been told that a legislative council or governor lays the foundation for aristocratical and monarchical power in a community. However ridiculous this objection to a compound legislature may appear, I have more than once heard it mentioned by the advocates for a single assembly. Who would believe that the same fountain of pure water should send forth at the same time wholesome and deadly streams? Are not the council and assembly both formed alike by the annual breath of the people? But I will suppose that a legislative council aspired after the honours of hereditary titles and power; would they not be effectually checked by the Assembly?I cannot help commending the zeal that appears in my countrymen against the power of a king or a House of Lords. I concur with them in all their prejudices against hereditary titles, honour, and power. History is little else than a recital of the follies and vices of kings and noblemen; and it is because I dread so much from them that I wish to exclude them for ever from Pennsylvania. For, notwithstanding our government has been called a simple democracy, I maintain that a foundation is laid in it for the most complete aristocracy we ever expected in the world.In order to prove this allegation, I shall premise two propositions which have never been controverted: First, where there is wealth there will be power; and secondly, the rich have always been an overmatch for the poor in all contests for power.These truths being admitted, I desire to know what can prevent our single representation being filled, in the course of a few years, with a majority of rich men? You say the people will not choose such men to represent them. The influence of wealth at elections is inestimable. It has been seen and felt in Pennsylvania; and I am obliged, in justice to my subject, to say that there are poor men among us as prepared to be influenced as the rich are prepared to influence them. The fault must be laid in both cases upon human nature. The consequence of a majority of rich men getting into our Assembly is plain: they will be more attached to the power and grandeur of their own body than to the liberties of the people. The Constitution has provided no sufficient check to this. We are told indeed that elections will be annual; that the doors of the Assembly are to be constantly open; that all laws are to be published for the consideration and approbation of the people; and that the Council of Censors will punish, by their censures, all violations of the Constitution and the authors of bad laws. I shall examine the efficacy of each of these checks separately.I hope, for the peace of the state, that we shall never see a body of men in power more attached to the present Constitution than the present Assembly; and if, with all their affection for it, they have broken it in many articles, it is reasonable to suppose that future Assemblies will use the same freedom with it. They may, if they choose, abolish annual elections. They may tell their constituents that elections draw off the minds of the people from necessary labour; or, if a war should exist, they may show the impossibility of holding elections when there is a chance of the militia being called into the field to oppose a common enemy. Or, lastly, they may fetter elections with oaths in such a manner as to exclude nine-tenths of the electors from voting. Such stratagems for perpetual power will never want men nor assemblies of men to support them; for the Assembly possesses such a plenitude of power from the influence of the many offices of profit and honour that are in their gift, that they may always promise themselves support from a great part of the state.But I will suppose that no infringement is ever made upon annual elections. In the course of even one year, a single Assembly may do the most irreparable mischief to a state. Socrates and Barnevelt were both put to death by Assemblies that held their powers at the election of the people. The same Assemblies would have shed oceans of tears to have recalled those illustrious citizens to life again in less than half a year after they imbrued their hands in their blood.I am highly pleased with having the doors of our Assembly kept constantly open; but how can this check the proceedings of the Assembly, when none but a few citizens of the town or county where the Assembly sits, or a few travelling strangers, can ever attend or watch them?I shall take no notice of the delays of business which must arise from publishing all laws for the consideration and approbation of the people; but I beg to be informed how long they must be published before they are passed; for I take it for granted that each county has a right to equal degrees of time to consider the laws. In what manner are they to be circulated? How are the sentiments of the people, scattered over a county of forty or sixty miles in extent, to be collected? Whether by ballot, or by voting in a customary manner? These are insurmountable obstacles in the way of the people as a real check upon the Assembly. And supposing an attempt should be made to restrain the single legislature in this manner, are we sure the disapprobation of the people would be sufficient to put a negative upon improper or arbitrary laws? Would not the Assembly, from their partiality to their own proceedings, be apt to pass over the complaints of the people in silence; to neglect or refuse to enter their petitions or remonstrances upon their journals; or to raise the hue and cry of a factious junto upon them, as “tories,” or “royalists,” or “aristocratic faction”?To talk of the Council of Censors as a check upon the Assembly is to forget that a man or a body of men may deceive, rob, and enslave the public for seven years, and then may escape the intended efficacy of the censures of the council by death, or by flying into a neighbouring state.We are informed that a single legislature was supported in the Convention by Dr. Franklin, and assented to by Mr. Rittenhouse, gentlemen distinguished for their uncommon abilities and deservedly dear for their virtues to every lover of human nature. The only answer, after what has been said, that I shall give to this argument is, that Divine Providence seems to have permitted them to err upon this subject, in order to console the world for the very great superiority they both possess over the rest of mankind in everything else except the science of government.Thus have I answered all the arguments that ever I have heard urged in favour of a single legislature, and I hope silenced all the objections that have been made to a double representation of the people. I might here appeal further to the practice of our courts of law in favour of repeated deliberations and divisions. Happy for us that the most inconsiderable portion of our liberty and property cannot be taken from us without the judgment of two or three courts; but by the Constitution of Pennsylvania the whole of our liberty and property, and even our lives, may be taken from us by the hasty and passionate decision of a single Assembly.I shall conclude my observations upon this part of the Constitution by summing up the advantages of a compound or double legislature.There is the utmost freedom in a compound legislature. The decisions of two legislative bodies cannot fail of coinciding with the wishes of a great majority of the community.There is safety in such a government, inasmuch as each body possesses a free and independent power, so that they mutually check ambition and usurpation in each other.There is the greatest wisdom in such a government. Every act being obliged to undergo the revision and amendments of two bodies of men, is necessarily purged of every mixture of folly, passion, and prejudice.There is the longest duration of freedom in such a government. Several of the Grecian states retained their freedom above four hundred years, particularly Lacedemon and Sparta, each of which possessed compound legislatures.There is the best order in such a government. By order, I mean obedience to laws, subordination to magistrates, civility and decency of behaviour, and the contrary of everything like mobs and factions.Compound governments are most agreeable to human nature, inasmuch as they afford the greatest scope for the expansion of the powers and virtues of the mind. Wisdom, learning, experience, with the most extensive benevolence, the most unshaken firmness, and the utmost elevation of soul, are all called into exercise by the opposite and different duties of the different representations of the people.LUDLOW.The power of government have been very justly divided into Legislative, Executive and judicial: Having cussed the Legislative power the government of Pennsylvania I shall proceed now to consider the Executive and Judicial.It is agreed on all hands, that the Executive and JudiCialpowers of government Should be wholly indignant of the Legislative. The authors of the Pennsylvania Constitution seem to have given their sanction to this opinion by separating thosepowers from the powers of the Assembly. It becomes us toinquire: whether they have made than to independent of the Assembly as to give them the free exercise of their own judgements.The insignificant figure the President and Council made in the Constitution, from not having a negative upon the laws of the Assembly, alone would soon have destroyed their authority and influence in the state. But the framers of the Constitution have taken pains to throw the whole power of the Council at once into the hands of the Assembly, by rendering the former dependent upon the latter in the two following particulars:The choice of the President.The President is chosen by the joint ballot of the Assembly and Council. The Assembly being to the Council, in point of numbers, as five are to one, of course choose the President. Each member will expect, in his turn, to fill the first chair in the state; and hence the whole Council will yield themselves up to the will of the Assembly.The fixing of salaries.The salaries of the President, and of each of the Counsellors, are fixed by the Assembly. This will necessarily render them dependent upon that body.It is worthy of notice here, that a rotation of Counsellors is established in the 19th section of the Constitution, “to prevent the danger of an inconvenient aristocracy.” From what source of power can this aristocracy arise? Are they not the creatures of the Assembly? But there is a magic in the sound of a Counsellor. Call a man an Assemblyman or a Counsellor, and he becomes, in vulgar opinion, an innocent creature, though you invest him with the despotism of an Eastern monarch.If the Council are dependent upon the Assembly, it follows of course that the judges, who are appointed by the Council, are likewise dependent upon the Assembly. But in order more fully to secure their dependence upon the will of the Assembly, they are obliged to hold their salaries upon the tenure of that will. In vain do they hold their commissions for seven years. This is but the shadow of independence. They cannot live upon the air, and their absolute dependence upon the Assembly gives that body a transcendent influence over all the courts of law in the state.Here then we have discovered the legislative, executive, and judicial powers of the state so blended together, that the liberty, the property, and the life of every individual in the state are laid prostrate by the Constitution at the feet of one single body of men. To live by one man’s will has been pronounced tyranny; how much better is it to live, or rather to die, by the will of one body of men? Unhappy Pennsylvania! methinks I see the scales of justice broken in the courts. I see the dowry of the widow and the portion of the orphan unjustly taken from them, in order to gratify the avarice of some demagogue who rules the Assembly by his eloquence and arts. I see the scaffolds streaming with the blood of the wise and virtuous in the state; I see the officers of government— but the prospect is too painful, and I will pursue it no farther.I shall proceed to take notice of some other parts of the Constitution.It was not sufficient to contaminate justice in its fountain; but its smallest streams are made to partake of impurity by the Constitution. In the 10th section of the Constitution, “all Justices of the Peace are to be elected by the freeholders of each city and county.” The best observation that can be made on this part of the Constitution is, to inform the public, that not above one half the people of the state chose magistrates agreeable to the laws of the Assembly for that purpose; that more than one half of those who were chosen have refused to accept of a commission; and that many of those who act are totally disqualified, from the want of education or leisure for the office.It has been said often, and I wish the saying were engraved over the doors of every State-House on the continent, that “all power is derived from the people;” but it has never yet been said that all power is seated in the people. Government supposes and requires a delegation of power; it cannot exist without it. And the idea of making the people at large judges of the qualifications necessary for magistrates, or judges of laws, or checks for Assemblies, proceeds upon the supposition that mankind are all alike wise and just, and have equal leisure. It moreover destroys the necessity for all government.What man ever made himself his own attorney? And yet this would not be more absurd than for the people at large to pretend to give up their power to a set of rulers, and afterwards resume the right of making, and of judging of, all their laws themselves. Such a government is a monster in nature. It contains as many governors, assemblymen, judges, and magistrates as there are freemen in the state, all exercising the same powers, and at the same time. Happy would it be for us if this monster were remarkable only for his absurdity. But, alas! he contains a tyrant in his bowels. History shows us that the people soon grow weary of the folly and tyranny of one another. They prefer one to many masters, and stability to the instability of slavery. They prefer a Julius Caesar to a Senate, and a Cromwell to a perpetual Parliament.The powers of government have been very justly divided into legislative, executive, and judicial. Having discussed the legislative power of the government of Pennsylvania, I shall proceed now to consider the executive and judicial.It is agreed on all hands that the executive and judicial powers of government should be wholly independent of the legislative. The authors of the Pennsylvania Constitution appear to have given their sanction to this opinion by separating, in words, these powers from those of the Assembly. It becomes us to examine whether they have made them so independent in fact.By the militia law of this state, all militia officers below the rank of brigadier-general are to be chosen by the people. Most of the objections that have been mentioned against magistrates chosen by the people apply with equal force against such officers. The mischievous effects of this part of the Constitution on the genius of the people of Pennsylvania will in time appear, from the frequent mutinies committed by the militia when in service, which would never have happened had they been accustomed to that steady discipline which results from officers holding their commissions under a fixed and responsible authority, instead of from the casual and partial votes of a few.Above one half of the state has refused or neglected to choose officers agreeable to the recommendation of the Assembly; and even in many of those places where elections for officers have been held, colonels have been chosen by forty or fifty, and captains and subalterns by only four or five votes.In another section of the Constitution it is said that certain great officers “shall be impeached by the General Assembly before the President and Council … for mal-administration.” Who is the man in this state that ought to be deprived of a trial by jury? And what is the reason that the Constitution has judged these officers unworthy of that protection? A civil or military officer may be innocent; and yet, from the delay of his trial for six or seven years, he may be deprived, by death or otherwise, of the vouchers of his innocence.
