SIR,-I was honored with your letters of the seventeenthand eighteenth instant, and am much obliged to you for theobservations they contain.The subject of government is an important one, and necessaryto be well understood by the citizens, and especially by thelegislators of these states. I shall be happy to receive furtherlight on the subject, and to have any errors that I may haveentertained corrected. I find that writers on government differ in their definition of a repoblic. Entick's Dictionary defines it,"A commonwealthwithout a king." I find you do not agree to the negative partof his definition. What I meant by it was,a governmentunder the authority of the people, consisting of legislative, executive, and judiciary powers; the legislative powers vested inan assembly, consisting of one or more branches, who, togetherwith the executive, are appointed by the people, and dependenton them for continuance, by periodical elections, agreeably toan established constitution; and that what especially denominates it a republic is its dependence on the public or people atlarge, without any hereditary powers. But it is not of so muchimportance by what appellation the government is distinguished,as to have it well constituted to secure the rights, and advancethe happiness of the community. I fully agree with you, sir, that it is optional with the peopleof a state to establish any form of government they please; tovest the powers in one, a few, or many, and for a limited or unli37*mited time; and the individuals of the state will be bound toyield obedience to such government while it continues; but Iam also of opinion, that they may alter their frame of government when they please, any former act of theirs, however explicit, to the contrary notwithstanding.But what I principally have in view, is to submit to your consideration the reasons that have inclined me to think that thequalified negative given to the executive by our constitution isbetter than an absolute negative. In Great Britain, where thereare the rights of the nobility as well as the rights of the common people to support, it may be necessary that the crownshould have a complete negative to preserve the balance; butin a republic like ours, wherein is no higher rank than that ofcommon citizens, unless distinguished by appointments to officе,what occasion can there be for such a balance? It is true thatsome men in every society have natural and acquired abilitiessuperior to others, and greater wealth. Yet these give them nolegal claim to offices in preference to others, but will doubtlessgive them some degree of influence, and justly, when they aremen of integrity; and may procure them appointments to placesof trust in the government. Yet, they having only the samecommon rights with the other citizens, what competition ofinterests can there be to require a balance? Besides, while thereal estates are divisible among all the children, or other kindred in equal degree, and entails are not admitted, it will operate as an agrarian law, and the influence arising from greatestates in a few hands or families will not exist to such a degreeof extent or duration as to form a system, or have any greateffect.In order to trace moral effects to their causes, and vice versa,it is necessary to attend to principles as they operate on men'sminds. Can it be expected that a chief magistrate of a freeand enlightened people, on whom he depends for his electionand continuance in office, would give his negative to a lawpassed by the other two branches of the legislature, if he hadpower? But the qualified negative given to the executive byour constitution, which is only to produce a revision, will probably be exercised on proper occasions; and the legislature havethe benefit of the president's reasons in their further deliberations on the subject, and if a sufficient number of the membersof cither house should be convinced by them to put a negativeupon the bill, it would add weight to the president's opinion, andrender it more satisfactory to the people. But if two thirds ofthe members of each house, after considering the reasons offeredby the President, should adhere to their former opinion, will notthat be the most safe foundation to rest the decision upon? Onthe whole, it appears to me that the power of a complete negative, if given, would be a dormant and useless one, and thatthe provision in the constitution is calculated to operate withproper weight, and will produce beneficial effects.The negative vested in the crown of Great Britain has neverbeen exercised since the Revolution, and the great influence ofthe crown in the legislature of that nation is derived from another source, that of appointment to all offices of honor andprofit, which has rendered the power of the crown nearly absolute; so that the nation is in fact governed by the cabinet council, who are the creatures of the crown.1 The consent of parliament is necessary to give sanction to their measures, and thisthey easily obtain by the influence aforesaid. If they shouldcarry their points so far as directly to affect personal liberty orprivate property, the people would be alarmed and oppose theirprogress; but this forms no part of their system, the principalobject of which is revenue, which they have carried to an enormous height. Wherever the chief magistrate may appoint tooffices without control, his government may become absolute,or at least aggressive; therefore the concurrence of the senate ismade requisite by our constitution. I have not time or room to add or apologize. 1 This seems but a superficial view at best. The negative of the crown hasgone out of use, because the custom has grown up of conceding the control ofthe administrative power to the majority which controls the legislature. So longas this construction shall prevail, there can never be a serious collision. But inAmerica there is no such connection between the executive and the legislativedepartments as to render harmony certain, or even likely, always to happen. Thenegative, therefore, seems an indispensable instrument of self-protection in casesof conflict. Practically, however, the qualified negative of the president hasthus far proved equivalent to an absolute veto.II.I RECEIVED your letter of the twentieth instant. I had inmine, of the same date, communicated to you my ideas on thatpart of the constitution, limiting the president's power of negativing the acts of the legislature; and just hinted some thoughtson the propriety of the provision made for the appointment tooffices, which I esteem to be a power nearly as important aslegislation.If that was vested in the president alone, he might, were itnot for his periodical election by the people, render himselfdespotic. It was a saying of one of the kings of England, thatwhile the king could appoint the bishops and judges, he mighthave what religion and law he pleased.It appears to me the senate is the most important branch inthe government, for aiding and supporting the executive, securing the rights of the individual states, the government of theUnited States, and the liberties of the people. The executivemagistrate is to execute the laws. The senate, being a branchof the legislature, will naturally incline to have them duly executed, and, therefore, will advise to such appointments as willbest attain that end. From the knowledge of the people in theseveral states, they can give the best information as to who arequalified for office; and though they will, as you justly observe,in some degree lessen his responsibility, yet their advice mayenable him to make such judicious appointments, as to renderresponsibility less necessary. The senators being eligible by thelegislatures of the several states, and dependent on them forreelection, will be vigilant in supporting their rights againstinfringement by the legislature or executive of the UnitedStates; and the government of the Union being federal, andinstituted by the several states for the advancement of theirinterests, they may be considered as so many pillars to supportit, and, by the exercise of the state governments, peacé and goodorder may be preserved in places most remote from the seat ofthe federal government, as well as at the centre. And themunicipal and federal rights of the people at large will beregarded by the senate, they being elected by the immediaterepresentatives of the people, and their rights will be bestsecured by a due execution of the laws. What temptation canthe senate be under to partiality in the trial of officers of whomthey had a voice in the appointment? Can they be disposedto favor a person who has violated his trust and their confidence?The other evils you mention, that may result from this power,appear to me but barely possible. The senators will doubtlessbe in general some of the most respectable citizens in the statesfor wisdom and probity, superior to mean and unworthy conduct, and instead of undue influence, to procure appointmentsfor themselves or their friends, they will consider that a fair andupright conduct will have the best tendency to preserve theconfidence of the people and of the states. They will be disposed to be diffident in recommending their friends and kindred,lest they should be suspected of partiality; and the other members will feel the same kind of reluctance, lest they should bethought unduly to favor a person, because related to a memberof their body; so that their friends and relations would notstand so good a chance for appointinent to offices, according totheir merit, as others.The senate is a convenient body to advise the president,from the smallness of its numbers. And I think the laws wouldbe better framed and more duly administered, if the executiveand judiciary officers were in general members of the legislature, in case there should be no interference as to the time ofattending to their several duties. This I have learned by experience in the government in which I live, and by observation ofothers differently constituted. I see no principles in our constitution that have any tendency to aristocracy, which, if I understand the term, is a government by nobles, independent of thepeople, which cannot take place, in either respect, without atotal subversion of the constitution. As both branches of Congress are eligible from the citizens at large, and wealth is not arequisite qualification, both will commonly be composed ofmembers of similar circumstances in life. And I see no reasonwhy the several branches of the government should not maintain the most perfect harmony, their powers being all/directedto one end, the advancement of the public good.If the president alone was vested with the power of appointing all officers, and was left to select a council for himself, hewould be liable to be deceived by flatterers and pretenders topatriotism, who would have no motive but their own emolument. They would wish to extend the powers of the executiveto increase their own importance; and, however upright hemight be in his intentions, there would be great danger of hisbeing misled, even to the subversion of the constitution, or, atleast, to introduce such evils as to interrupt the harmony of thegovernment, and deprive him of the confidence of the people.But I have said enough upon these speculative points, whichnothing but experience can reduce to a certainty.I am, with great respect,Your obliged humble servant,ROGER SHERMAN.
