Having received the honour of an appointment to represent you in the late convention, it is,perhaps, my duty to comply with the request of many gentlemen, whose characters andjudgments I sincerely respect, and who have urged that this would be a proper occasion to laybefore you any information, which will serve to elucidate and explain the principles andarrangements of the constitution that has been submitted to the consideration of the United States.I confess that I am unprepared for so extensive and so important a disquisition: hut the insidiousattempts, which are clandestinely and industriously made to pervert and destroy the new plan,induce me the more readily to engage in its defence: and the impressions of four months constantattendance to the subject, have not been so easily effaced, as to leave me without an answer tothe objections which have been raised.It will be proper, however, before I enter into the refutation of the charges that are alleged, tomark the leading discrimination between the state constitutions, and the constitution of theUnited States. When the people established the powers of legislation under their separategovernments, they invested their representatives with every right and authority which they didnot in explicit terms reserve: and therefore upon every question, respecting the jurisdiction of thehouse of assembly, if the frame of government is silent, the jurisdiction is efficient and complete.But in delegating federal powers, another criterion was necessarily introduced: and thecongressional authority is to be collected, not from tacit implication, but from the positive grant,expressed in the instrument of the union. Hence, it is evident, that in the former case, everythingwhich is not reserved, is given: but in the latter, the reverse of the proposition prevails, andeverything which is not given, is reserved. This distinction being recognized, will furnish andanswer to those who think the omission of a bill of rights, a defect in the proposed constitution:for it would have been superfluous and absurd, to have stipulated with a federal body of our owncreation, that we should enjoy those privileges, of which we are not divested either by theintention of that act that has brought that body into existence. For instance, the liberty of thepress, which has been a copious subject of declamation and opposition: what controul canproceed from the federal government, to shackle or destroy that sacred palladium of nationalfreedom? If, indeed, a power similar to that which has been granted for the regulation ofcommerce, had been granted to regulate literary publications it would have been as necessary tostipulate that the liberty of the press should be preserved inviolate, as that the impost should begeneral in its operation. With respect, likewise, to the particular district of ten miles, which is tobe the seat of government, it will undoubtedly be proper to observe this salutary precaution, asthere the legislative power will he vested in the president, senate, and house of representatives ofthe United States. But this could not be an object with the convention: for it must naturallydepend upon a future compact; to which the citizens immediately interested, will, and ought tobe parties: and there is no reason to suspect, that so popular a privilege will in that case beneglected. In truth, then, the proposed system possesses no influence whatever upon the press;and it would have been merely nugatory, to have introduced a formal declaration upon thesubject; nay, that very declaration might have been construed to imply that some degree of powerwas given, since we undertook to define its extent.Another objection that has been fabricated against the new constitution, is expressed in thisdisingenuous form--"the trial by jury is abolished in civil cases." I must be excused, my fellowcitizens, if, upon this point, I take advantage of my professional experience, to detect the futilityof the assertion. Let it be remembered, then, that the business of the federal constitution was notlocal, but general-not limited to the views and establishments of a single state, hut co-extensivewith the continent, and comprehending the views and establishments of thirteen independentsovereignties. When, therefore, this subject was in discussion, we were involved in difficulties,which pressed on all sides, and no precedent could be discovered to direct our course. The casesopen to a jury, differed in the different states; it was therefore impracticable, on that ground, tohave made a general rule. The want of uniformity would have rendered any reference to thepractice of the states idle and useless: and it could not, with any propriety, be said, that "the trialby jury shall be as heretofore:" since there has never existed any federal system of jurisprudence,to which the declaration could relate. Besides, it is not in all cases that the trial by jury is adoptedin civil questions: for causes depending in courts of admiralty, such as relate to maritimecaptures, and such as are agitated in the courts of equity, do not require the intervention of thattribunal. How, then, was the line of discrimination to be drawn? The convention found the tasktoo difficult for them: and they left the business as it stands-in the fullest confidence, that nodanger could possibly ensue, since the proceedings of the supreme court are to be regulated bythe congress, which is a faithful representation of the people: and the oppression of governmentis effectually barred, by declaring that in all criminal cases, the trial by jury shall be preserved.After all, my fellow-citizens, it is neither extraordinary nor unexpected, that the constitutionoffered to your consideration, should meet with opposition. It is the nature of man to pursue hisown interest, in preference to the public good; and I do not mean to make any personal reflection,when I add, that it is the interest of a very numerous, powerful, and respectable body, tocounteract and destroy the excellent work produced by the late convention. All the officers ofgovernment, and all the appointments for the administration of justice and the collection of thepublic revenue, which are transferred from the individual to the aggregate sovereignty of thestates, will necessarily turn the stream of influence and emolument into a new channel. Everyperson, therefore, who either enjoys, or expects to enjoy a place of profit under the presentestablishment, will object to the proposed innovation? not, in truth, because it is injurious to theliberties of his country, but because it effects his schemes of wealth and consequence. willconfess, indeed, that I am not a blind admirer of this plan of government, and that there are someparts of it, which, if my wish had prevailed, would certainly have been altered. But, when Ireflect how widely men differ in their opinions, and that every man (and the observation applieslikewise to every state) has an equal pretension to assert his own, I am satisfied that anythingnearer to perfection could not have been accomplished. If there are errors, it should beremembered, that the seeds of reformation are sown in the work itself, and the concurrence oftwo thirds of the congress may at any time introduce alterations and amendments. Regarding it,then, in every point of view, with a candid and disinterested mind, I am bold to assert, that it isthe BEST FORM OF GOVERNMENT WHICH HAS EVER BEEN OFFERED TO THEWORLD. FINIS
